
1. Dig Dis. 2017 Apr 27. doi: 10.1159/000471481. [Epub ahead of print]

Benign Exocrine Pancreatic Diseases in Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.

Pezzilli R(1), Pagano N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive Diseases Sant'Orsola-Malpighi Hospital Bologna,
Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Data regarding the involvement of the pancreas during the course of
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are scarce and conflicting.
AIM: To assess the frequency of benign pancreatic diseases, that is, acute
pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis (CP), and autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP), in a 
population with IBD.
METHODS: A search for patients with IBD who presented at our hospital between
January 2006 and January 2015 with a diagnosis of IBD was carried out.
PATIENTS: A total of 5,242 patients with IBD were included in this study (2,838
males, 54.1%, and 2,404 females, 45.9%, mean age 43.7 years, range 18-101 years).
Of these 5,242 patients, 3,201 (61.1%) had Crohn's disease and 2,041 (38.9%) had 
ulcerative colitis (UC).
RESULTS: Thirteen patients developed benign pancreatic diseases (0.2%). Eight
patients had acute pancreatitis (0.2%; 4 in the Crohn's disease group and 4 in
the UC group), 3 had CP (0.1%, 2 in the Crohn's disease group and 1 in the UC
group), 2 had AIP (0.04%), all in the group of diffuse UC (p = 0.321).
CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of benign pancreatic disease was not high in patients 
with IBD and was probably similar to that seen in the general population.

© 2017 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000471481 
PMID: 28445877 


2. J Am Coll Surg. 2017 Apr 23. pii: S1072-7515(17)30375-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2017.04.009. [Epub ahead of print]

A Novel Approach to Calculating Small Intestine Length Based on Magnetic
Resonance Enterography.

Wilson NA(1), Park HS(2), Lee KS(2), Barron LK(3), Warner BW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Louis Children's Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri;
Department of Surgery, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.
Electronic address: nicole.wilson@rothaffinity.com. (2)Department of Mechanical
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Surgery, St. Louis Children's Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri;
Department of Surgery, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.

BACKGROUND: Bowel length is an important factor in the management of patients
with intestinal failure and short bowel syndrome (SBS). However, it is difficult 
to accurately measure the length of the small intestine. Our purpose was to
demonstrate the feasibility of a dedicated software algorithm for calculating
small intestine length based on magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) images.
STUDY DESIGN: A custom algorithm for image thresholding, wall-identification,
segmentation, and path extraction was designed and implemented. Algorithm output 
included the Euclidean distance from the pylorus to the terminal ileum and
coordinates of points along that route. For validation, ten C57BL/6 mice
underwent bowel preparation prior to MRE. After sacrifice, the entire small bowel
was removed and the ex vivo small intestine length was measured in a standardized
manner. Calculated and ex vivo length measurements were compared.
RESULTS: The mean absolute difference and the mean percentage difference between 
the two modalities were 1.8 ± 3.8 cm (p = 0.24) and 9.4% ± 6.0%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the feasibility of a dedicated,
computer-vision based algorithm that can reliably and accurately calculate the
length of the small intestine using MRE images. A validated, non-invasive
approach to measuring small intestine length that can be implemented using
available clinical imaging can have a dramatic clinical impact on management in
patients with SBS, Crohn's disease, and other intestinal disorders.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2017.04.009 
PMID: 28445795 


3. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 25. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001117. [Epub ahead of
print]

Outcomes After Primary Infliximab Treatment Failure in Inflammatory Bowel
Disease.

Buhl S(1), Steenholdt C, Rasmussen M, Borghede MK, Brynskov J, Thomsen OØ,
Ainsworth MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Herlev and Gentofte Hospital, Herlev, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Primary infliximab treatment failure is common in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease and represents a challenge to clinicians. Treatment
options are limited. This study assessed the prognosis, defined as surgery-free
survival, in patients with primary infliximab treatment failure as compared to
patients without primary failure (initial responders). Furthermore, this study
assessed the specter of medical therapies used after primary infliximab treatment
failure along with treatment outcomes.
METHODS: Retrospective, observational, cohort study of patients with inflammatory
bowel disease treated with infliximab as first-line anti-tumor necrosis factor
treatment at a tertiary center. Primary infliximab treatment failure was defined 
as no clinical improvement during infliximab induction therapy resulting in
discontinuation of infliximab therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 560 patients (Crohn's disease n = 353 and ulcerative colitis 
n = 207) were treated with infliximab. Among these, 81 (15%) had primary
infliximab treatment failure after a median of 3 infusions (weeks 0, 2, and 6)
(interquartile range 2-4). The median surgery-free survival was 196 days from
first infusion. One year after primary infliximab treatment failure, the majority
of patients (n = 51, 63%) had inflammatory bowel disease-related surgery (Crohn's
disease n = 19, 58%; ulcerative colitis n = 32, 67%; P = 0.49). There was a
markedly increased risk of surgery in patients with primary infliximab treatment 
failure as compared to initial responders: odds ratio 6.3 (3.8-10.6), P < 0.0001.
Among 30 patients handled by medical therapies, 16 (53%) still had active disease
1 year after primary infliximab treatment failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary infliximab treatment failure is associated with poor outcome
including high risk of surgery or sustained active disease despite medical
interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001117 
PMID: 28445244 


4. Pol Arch Intern Med. 2017 Apr 26. doi: 10.20452/pamw.4009. [Epub ahead of print]

Does the rapid fecal calprotectin test equally predict mucosal inflammation in
both ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD)? A prospective analysis of 
an IBD cohort.

Moniuszko A, Głuszek S, Rydzewska G.

INTRODUCTION    Fecal calprotectin (FC) is a well-established biomarker of
intestinal inflammation in CD and UC. However, standard laboratory methods are
time consuming and not always useful in clinical practice.  OBJECTIVES    We
analyzed the efficacy of a rapid bedside FC test to detect disease flares in a
hospital setting. We also assessed the influence of disease location on
diagnostic accuracy. PATIENTS AND METHODS    140 patients were prospectively
enrolled in the study (46 UC, 94 CD). FC was measured both by ELISA and by the
rapid Quantum Blue® test. Endoscopic activity was assessed using the endoscopic
Mayo subscore or Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn's Disease (SES-CD).  RESULTS  
 FC highly correlated with endoscopic activity both in CD (AUC 0.83) and UC
(0.80), with cut-offs of 238.5 and 499μg/g, respectively. FC rose dynamically
even with early signs of inflammation in both CD (SES-CD 4-10 vs. 0: 252 vs
100.0μg/g, P = 0.02) and UC (Mayo 1 vs 0: 323.3 vs. 100.0μg/g; P <0.001). In UC, 
FC was lower in proctitis than in left-sided and pancolitis (340.0, 500.0 and
421.5μg/g), but these differences were not statistically significant (P >0.05).
In CD, lower FC values were observed in isolated small bowel disease.
CONCLUSIONS    FC levels rose dynamically, with mild signs of intestinal
inflammation. This rapid bedside test presents a potential alternative to
time-consuming ELISA, as its diagnostic accuracy is not influenced by disease
location. It may play an important role in a hospital setting, providing faster
diagnosis and allowing a reduction of the costs by lowering number of endoscopic 
procedures.

DOI: 10.20452/pamw.4009 
PMID: 28442699 


5. Biomed Res. 2017;38(2):111-121. doi: 10.2220/biomedres.38.111.

Possible involvement of mucosal-associated invariant T cells in the progression
of inflammatory bowel diseases.

Tominaga K(1), Yamagiwa S(1), Setsu T(1), Kimura N(1), Honda H(1), Kamimura H(1),
Honda Y(1), Takamura M(1), Yokoyama J(1), Suzuki K(2), Wakai T(3), Terai S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Niigata University Graduate
School of Medical and Dental Sciences. (2)Department of Health Informatics,
Niigata University of Health and Welfare. (3)Division of Surgery, Niigata
University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences.

Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate-like T cells involved in
anti-bacterial immunity. Recent studies have demonstrated that MAIT cells might
be implicated in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), but their precise function
in IBD remains to be elucidated. We investigated the possible involvement of MAIT
cells in the immunopathogenesis of IBDs. Heparinized peripheral blood and biopsy 
specimens of the colon were collected from 25 patients with ulcerative colitis
(UC), 15 patients with Crohn's disease (CD), and 19 heathy individuals.
Lymphocytes were isolated from the blood and colon, and then MAIT cells were
analyzed by flow cytometry. The frequency of MAIT cells was significantly lower
in the blood of IBD patients compared to healthy donors and significantly higher 
in the inflamed colons compared to healthy colons (P = 0.001). Among the IBD
patients, the frequency of MAIT cells in the blood and colon was correlated with 
disease activities. In vitro activated MAIT cells from IBD patients secreted
significantly more tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-17 than those from
healthy donors. These findings indicate that MAIT cells are activated in IBD
patients, and their accumulation in the inflamed mucosa is correlated with
disease activities.

DOI: 10.2220/biomedres.38.111 
PMID: 28442662 


6. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr 22. pii: S1542-3565(17)30471-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.04.028. [Epub ahead of print]

To blow or to cut, endoscopic balloon dilation versus surgery for Crohn's related
strictures.

Bessissow T(1), Van Assche G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal,
Canada. Electronic address: talat.bessissow@mcgill.ca. (2)Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium and
University of Leuven, Belgium.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.04.028 
PMID: 28442316 


7. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2017 Jun;19(6):28. doi: 10.1007/s11894-017-0566-9.

A Systematic Review of the Clinical Presentation, Diagnosis, and Treatment of
Small Bowel Obstruction.

Rami Reddy SR(1), Cappell MS(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, William
Beaumont Hospital, 3535 West Thirteen Mile Road, Royal Oak, MI, 48073, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, William
Beaumont Hospital, 3535 West Thirteen Mile Road, Royal Oak, MI, 48073, USA.
mscappell@yahoo.com. (3)Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine,
Royal Oak, MI, 48073, USA. mscappell@yahoo.com.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This study aimed to systematically review small bowel
obstruction (SBO), focusing on recent changes in diagnosis/therapy.
RECENT FINDINGS: SBO incidence is about 350,000/annum in the USA. Etiologies
include adhesions (65%), hernias (10%), neoplasms (5%), Crohn's disease (5%), and
other (15%). Bowel dilatation occurs proximal to obstruction primarily from
swallowed air and secondarily from intraluminal fluid accumulation. Dilatation
increases mural tension, decreases mucosal perfusion, causes bacterial
proliferation, and decreases mural tensile strength that increases bowel
perforation risks. Classical clinical tetrad is abdominal pain, nausea and
emesis, abdominal distention, and constipation-to-obstipation. Physical exam may 
reveal restlessness, acute illness, and signs of dehydration and sepsis,
including tachycardia, pyrexia, dry mucous membranes, hypotension/orthostasis,
abdominal distention, and hypoactive bowel sounds. Severe direct tenderness,
involuntary guarding, abdominal rigidity, and rebound tenderness suggest advanced
SBO, as do marked leukocytosis, neutrophilia, bandemia, and lactic acidosis.
Differential diagnosis includes postoperative ileus, narcotic bowel, colonic
pseudo-obstruction, mesenteric ischemia, and large bowel obstruction. Medical
resuscitation includes intravenous hydration, correcting electrolyte
abnormalities, intravenous antibiotics, nil per os, and nasoenteral suction.
Abdominal CT with oral and intravenous gastrografin contrast is highly sensitive 
and specific in detecting/characterizing SBO. SBO usually resolves with medical
therapy but requires surgery, preferentially by laparoscopy, for unremitting
total obstruction, bowel perforation, severe ischemia, or clinical deterioration 
with medical therapy. Overall mortality is 10% but increases to 30% with bowel
necrosis/perforation. Key point in SBO is early diagnosis, emphasizing abdominal 
CT; aggressive medical therapy including rehydration, antibiotics, and nil per
os; and surgery for failed medical therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-017-0566-9 
PMID: 28439845 


8. J Breath Res. 2017 Apr 25. doi: 10.1088/1752-7163/aa6f1d. [Epub ahead of print]

Faecal volatile organic compounds analysis using field asymmetric ion mobility
spectrometry: non-invasive diagnostics in paediatric inflammatory bowel disease.

van Gaal N(1), Lakenman R(2), Covington J(3), Savage R(4), de Groot E(5), Bomers 
M(6), Benninga M(7), Mulder C(5), de Boer N(8), de Meij T(9).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and hepatology,VU University medical centre, De Boelelaan
1118, Amsterdam, 1081 HZ ,NETHERLANDS. (2)Department of Pediatrics,VU University 
medical centre, Amsterdam,NETHERLANDS. (3)School of Engineering,University of
Warwick, London,UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND. (4)Systems 
Biology Centre,University of Warwick, Coventry,UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND. (5)Gastroenterology and hepatology,VU University medical
centre, Amsterdam,NETHERLANDS. (6)Department of Internal Medicine,VU University
medical centre, Amsterdam,NETHERLANDS. (7)Paediatric Gastroenterology,AMC,
Amsterdam, North Holland,NETHERLANDS. (8)Gastroenterology and Hepatology,VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam,NETHERLANDS. (9)Pediatric
gastroenterologist,VU University medical centre, Amsterdam,NETHERLANDS.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative
colitis (UC), remains challenging to diagnose. Diagnostic work up carries a high 
burden, especially in paediatric patients, due to invasive endoscopic procedures.
IBD is associated with alterations in intestinal microbiota composition. Faecal
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) reflect gut microbiota composition. Aim of this
study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of faecal VOC profiling as
non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for paediatric IBD.

© 2017 IOP Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1088/1752-7163/aa6f1d 
PMID: 28439048 


9. Gastroenterol Hepatol (N Y). 2014 Nov;10(11):748-751.

Sleep and Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Ali T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine Director, IBD Clinical Trials Unit
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine Director, St. Anthony Hospital Crohn's
& Colitis Program Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.


PMID: 28435412 


10. Gastroenterol Hepatol (N Y). 2014 Nov;10(11):718-726.

Clinical Review of Small-Bowel Endoscopic Imaging.

Bartel MJ(1), Stark ME(1), Lukens FJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dr Bartel is a gastroenterology fellow, Dr Stark is an associate professor of 
medicine, and Dr Lukens is the gastroenterology fellowship director and an
assistant professor of medicine in the Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida.

Endoscopic imaging of the small bowel, frequently used in gastroenterology
practice, encompasses mainly video capsule endoscopy (VCE) and device-assisted
enteroscopy (DAE). Both tests are essential diagnostic tools to evaluate obscure 
gastrointestinal bleeding and suspected small-bowel disorders, such as Crohn's
disease. VCE solely identifies and localizes small-bowel pathology, whereas DAE
offers both visualization and tissue sampling to diagnose diseased structures and
perform therapeutic maneuvers, such as those needed to achieve hemostasis. In
this context, VCE is frequently used as a screening test for small-bowel
abnormalities that, when present, are then managed with DAE.


PMID: 28435408 


11. Med Phys. 2017 Apr 24. doi: 10.1002/mp.12299. [Epub ahead of print]

Magnetically Guided Capsule Endoscopy.

Shamsudhin N(1), Zverev VI(2), Keller H(3), Pane S(1), Egolf PW(4), Nelson BJ(1),
Tishin AM(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Multi-Scale Robotics Lab, Institute of Robotics and Intelligent Systems, ETH
Zurich CH 8092, Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Faculty of Physics, M.V. Lomonosov Moscow
State University, 119991, Moscow, Russia. (3)KUKA Roboter, GmbH Zugspitzstrasse
140, 86165, Augsburg, Germany. (4)Institute of Thermal Sciences and Engineering, 
University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland, CH 1401,
Yverdon-les-Bains, Switzerland. (5)Pharmag LLC, Promyshlennaya st 4, 142190,
Troitsk, Moscow, Russia.

Wireless capsule endoscopy (WCE) is a powerful tool for medical screening and
diagnosis, where a small capsule is swallowed and moved by means of natural
peristalsis and gravity through the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The
camera-integrated capsule allows for visualization of the small intestine, a
region which was previously inaccessible to classical flexible endoscopy. As a
diagnostic tool, it allows to localize the sources of bleedings in the
middle-part of the gastrointestinal tract and to identify diseases such as
inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease), Polyposis-Syndrome and tumors. The 
screening and diagnostic efficacy of the WCE, especially in the stomach region,
is hampered by a variety of technical challenges like the lack of active capsular
position and orientation control. Therapeutic functionality is absent in most
commercial capsules, due to constraints in capsular volume and energy storage.
The possibility of using body-exogenous magnetic fields to guide, orient, power
and operate the capsule and its mechanisms has led to increasing research in
Magnetically Guided Capsule Endoscopy (MGCE). This work shortly reviews the
history and state-of-art in WCE technology. It highlights the magnetic
technologies for advancing diagnostic and therapeutic functionalities of WCE. Not
restricting itself to the GI tract, the review further investigates the
technological developments in magnetically guided microrobots that can navigate
through the various air and fluid filled lumina and cavities in the body for
minimally invasive medicine. This article is protected by copyright. All rights
reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/mp.12299 
PMID: 28437000 


12. Pediatr Dermatol. 2017 Apr 23. doi: 10.1111/pde.13138. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficiency of Ustekinumab in Crohn's Disease with Severe Psoriasiform Rash
Induced by Biotherapies in an Adolescent.

Bertrand V(1), El Haite A(2), Carré D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Paediatric Unit, CHG Jacques Monod, Le Havre, France. (2)Pathology Laboratory,
CHG Jacques Monod, Le Havre, France. (3)Dermatology Unit, CHG Jacques Monod, Le
Havre, France.

Ustekinumab is approved for the treatment of psoriasis in adolescents and for the
treatment of moderate to severe Crohn's disease (CD) in adults, but data are
lacking in pediatric CD. We report a case of severe psoriasis induced by
biotherapies in an adolescent with CD that improved after switching to
ustekinumab (90 mg at weeks 0, 2, and 4 and then every 8 weeks). The patient had 
not experienced CD relapse after 1 year of follow-up. Ustekinumab can be an
alternative therapy for psoriasis induced by biotherapies when conventional
treatment fails and can maintain remission of CD.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/pde.13138 
PMID: 28436109 


13. J Pain Res. 2017 Apr 5;10:787-795. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S131156. eCollection 2017.

Subanesthetic ketamine for pain management in hospitalized children, adolescents,
and young adults: a single-center cohort study.

Sheehy KA(1), Lippold C(1), Rice AL(1), Nobrega R(1), Finkel JC(1), Quezado
ZM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Anesthesiology, Pain, and Perioperative Medicine, The Sheikh Zayed
Institute for Pediatric Surgical Innovation, Children's Research Institute,
Children's National Health System, George Washington University School of
Medicine and Health Sciences. (2)Center for Neuroscience Research, Children's
Research Institute, Children's National Health System, Washington, DC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Subanesthetic doses of ketamine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor
antagonist used as an adjuvant to opioid for the treatment of pain in adults with
acute and chronic pain, have been shown, in some instances, to improve pain
intensity and to decrease opioid intake. However, less is known about the role of
ketamine in pain management in children, adolescents, and young adults.
PURPOSE: We examined the effects of subanesthetic ketamine on pain intensity and 
opioid intake in children, adolescents, and young adults with acute and chronic
pain syndromes treated in an inpatient setting.
METHODS: This is a longitudinal cohort study of patients treated with
subanesthetic ketamine infusions in regular patient care units in a tertiary
pediatric hospital. Primary outcomes included changes in pain scores and
morphine-equivalent intake.
RESULTS: The study cohort included 230 different patients who during 360 separate
hospital admissions received subanesthetic ketamine infusions for pain
management. Overall, ketamine infusions were associated with significant
reductions in mean pain scores from baseline (mean pain scores 6.64 [95% CI:
6.38-6.90]) to those recorded on the day after discontinuation of ketamine (mean 
pain scores 4.38 [95% CI: 4.06-4.69]), p<0.001. Importantly, the effect of
ketamine on pain scores varied according to clinical diagnosis (p=0.011),
infusion duration (p=0.004), and pain location (p=0.004). Interestingly, greater 
reductions in pain scores were observed in patients with cancer pain and patients
with pain associated with pancreatitis and Crohn's disease. There were no records
of psychotomimetic side effects requiring therapy.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that administration of subanesthetic ketamine for 
pain management is feasible and safe in regular inpatient care units and may
benefit children, adolescents, and young adults with acute and chronic pain. This
study is informative and can be helpful in determining sample and effect sizes
when planning clinical trials to determine the role of subanesthetic ketamine
infusions for pain management in pediatric patients.

DOI: 10.2147/JPR.S131156 
PMCID: PMC5388303
PMID: 28435316 

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure This article was prepared while
Zenaide MN Quezado, MD was employed at the Children’s National Health System. The
opinions expressed in this article are the author’s own and do not reflect the
view of the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Health and Human
Services, or the United States government. The authors report no other conflicts 
of interest in this work.


14. An Pediatr (Barc). 2017 Apr 20. pii: S1695-4033(17)30052-8. doi:
10.1016/j.anpedi.2017.01.013. [Epub ahead of print]

[A real-world study focused on the effectiveness and safety of adalimumab as
first-line anti-TNF treatment for pediatric Crohn's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Navas-López VM(1), Pujol Muncunill G(2), Llerena E(2), Navalón Rubio M(3),
Gil-Ortega D(3), Varea-Calderón V(2), Sierra Salinas C(4), Martin-de-Carpi J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sección de Gastroenterología y Nutrición Infantil, Hospital Materno Infantil, 
Málaga, España; Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), Málaga,
España. Electronic address: victor.navas@gmail.com. (2)Unidad para el Cuidado
Integral de la Enfermedad Inflamatoria Intestinal Pediátrica, Sección de
Gastroenterología, Hepatología y Nutrición Pediátrica, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu,
Esplugues de Llobregat, Barcelona, España. (3)Unidad de Gastroenterología y
Nutrición Pediátrica, Hospital Virgen de la Arrixaca, Murcia, España. (4)Sección 
de Gastroenterología y Nutrición Infantil, Hospital Materno Infantil, Málaga,
España; Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), Málaga, España.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Adalimumab (ADA), a monoclonal humanised anti-TNF
antibody, is usually prescribed as a second-line treatment in paediatric Crohn's 
disease (CD) patients who have become unresponsive or developed intolerance to
infliximab (IFX). In the case series reported, more than 70% of patients had
initially been treated with IFX. Data on short- and long-term effectiveness of
ADA in anti-TNF naïve patients is limited. The aim of this study is to describe
our experience with ADA as a first-line anti-TNF in paediatric CD patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This is a multicentre retrospective study including
anti-TNF naïve paediatric CD patients treated with ADA as first-line anti-TNF.
RESULTS: Sixty-two patients (34males), with a mean age of 13.0±2.4years and a
disease duration of 7.3 (IQR 2.7-21) months were included. Median wPCDAI was 35
(IQR 24.3-47.5). Fifty-eight out of 62 (93.5%) were on combo therapy at baseline.
Clinical remission at week12 was achieved in 50 out of 62 (80.6%) and in 57 out
of 60 (95.0%) at week52. Eight patients (13%) reported adverse events. Mean
height, growth rate and BMI z-scores improved significantly between baseline and 
week 52, especially in patients with growth failure.
CONCLUSIONS: ADA treatment leads to lasting clinical remission in anti-TNF naïve 
paediatric patients with CD. ADA significantly improved growth rate in children
with CD who had growth delay at baseline.

Copyright © 2017. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2017.01.013 
PMID: 28434894 


15. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2017 Apr 24. doi:
10.1080/14737167.2017.1322509. [Epub ahead of print]

Cost-utility of biological treatment sequences for luminal Crohn's disease in
Europe.

Rencz F(1), Gulácsi L(1), Péntek M(1), Gecse KB(2), Dignass A(3), Halfvarson
J(4), Gomollón F(5), Baji P(1,)(6), Peyrin-Biroulet L(7), Lakatos PL(2), Brodszky
V(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Health Economics , Corvinus University of Budapest , Fővám tér
8., H-1093 Budapest , Hungary. (2)b 1st Department of Medicine , Semmelweis
University , Korányi Sándor u. 2/a, H-1083 Budapest , Hungary. (3)c Department of
Medicine 1 , Agaplesion Markus Krankenhaus , Wilhelm-Epstein-Straße 2, 60431
Frankfurt , Germany. (4)d Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine and
Health , Örebro University , 701 82 Örebro , Sweden. (5)e Gastroenterology Unit, 
Clinical Universitary Hospital Lozano IIS Aragón (Blesa, IIS Aragón, CIBEREHD) , 
Avenida San Juan Bosco 15, Zaragoza 50009 , Spain. (6)f Center for Economic
Research and Graduate Education (CERGE) Economics Institute (EI) Research Fellow 
, Charles University , P.O. Box 882 Politickych veznu 7 111 21 Praha 1 , The
Czech Republic. (7)g Inserm U954 and Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology,
University Hospital of Nancy-Brabois , Lorraine University , Allée du Morvan,
54511 Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy , France.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of treatment sequences with
available biologics, including adalimumab (ADA), biosimilar infliximab (bsIFX),
originator infliximab (IFX) and vedolizumab (VEDO) for luminal Crohn's disease in
nine European countries.
METHODS: A Markov-model was constructed to simulate five-year medical costs and
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Data on clinical efficacy were obtained from
randomised controlled trials. Country-specific unit costs, discount rates and a
third-party payer perspective were applied.
RESULTS: The bsIFX versus conventional therapy resulted in the most favourable
incremental cost-utility ratios (ICURs) ranging from €34,580 (Hungary) to
€77,062/QALY (Sweden). Compared to bsIFX, the bsIFX-ADA sequence was more
cost-effective than the bsIFX-VEDO sequence with ICURs varying between €70,277
(France) and €162,069/QALY (Germany). The ICURs of the bsIFX-ADA-VEDO sequence
versus the bsIFX-ADA strategy were between €206,266 (The Netherlands) and
€363,232/QALY (Spain).
CONCLUSIONS: We are the first to compare cost-effectiveness of multiple
biological sequences for luminal Crohn's disease. Based on our findings, bsIFX
can be recommended as a first-line treatment in patients unresponsive to
conventional treatments. While biological sequences only slightly differ in their
associated health gains, their costs vary greatly. The bsIFX-ADA-VEDO seems to be
the most cost-effective sequence of the available biologics across Europe.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2017.1322509 
PMID: 28434387 


16. Pediatr Radiol. 2017 Apr 22. doi: 10.1007/s00247-017-3849-2. [Epub ahead of
print]

Can ultrasound be used as the primary imaging in children with suspected Crohn
disease?

Tsai TL(1), Marine MB(2), Wanner MR(2), Cooper ML(2), Steiner SJ(3), Ouyang F(4),
Gregory Jennings S(1), Karmazyn B(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA. (2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences,
Riley Hospital for Children, 702 Barnhill Drive, Room 1053, Indianapolis, IN,
46202, USA. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Riley Hospital for Children,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA. (4)Department of
Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA. bkarmazy@iupui.edu. (6)Department of Radiology
and Imaging Sciences, Riley Hospital for Children, 702 Barnhill Drive, Room 1053,
Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA. bkarmazy@iupui.edu.

BACKGROUND: There is growing literature on the use of ultrasound (US) for
evaluation of Crohn disease in adults, but few studies have been conducted on
children. Several studies demonstrated high accuracy of US in the diagnosis of
Crohn disease. Using US as the primary screening imaging modality for Crohn
disease can reduce health care costs, the need for sedation and ionizing
radiation exposure.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study is to determine if US can be used for screening
evaluation of pediatric Crohn disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective cohort study of pediatric patients
undergoing MR enterography (MRE) for suspected or known history of Crohn disease 
was performed, with gray-scale and Doppler US of the terminal ileum done
immediately before or after MRE. US images were interpreted by two radiologists
(Reader 1 and Reader 2) not involved in image acquisition, in blinded and
randomized fashion. US findings of Crohn disease including bowel wall thickening,
wall stratification, increased vascularity on Doppler, lymphadenopathy, fat
infiltration and extraintestinal complications were evaluated. MRE findings of
terminal ileitis were considered the reference standard. Demographic data, body
mass index (BMI), symptoms, and laboratory, endoscopic and histopathological data
were obtained from electronic medical records.
RESULTS: Forty-one patients (mean age: 13.7 years: 4.6-18.9 years) were
evaluated. Mean BMI was 21.2 (range: 13-40.2); 10 patients (24.3%) were either
overweight or obese. Final diagnoses were Crohn disease (n=24), ulcerative
colitis (n=4) and normal/non-inflammatory bowel disease-related diagnoses (n=13).
US demonstrated sensitivity of 67% and 78% and specificity of 78% and 83%, by
Reader 1 and Reader 2, respectively. MRE sensitivity and specificity were 75% and
100%, respectively, compared to final clinicopathological diagnosis.
Interobserver agreement between Reader 1 and Reader 2 was good (0.6< kappa <0.8).
CONCLUSION: In screening for Crohn disease in children, US has limited
sensitivity for detecting terminal ileitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-017-3849-2 
PMID: 28434027 


17. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 21. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4577-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Immunological Mechanisms of Adsorptive Cytapheresis in Inflammatory Bowel
Disease.

Sáez-González E(1), Moret I(2,)(3,)(4), Alvarez-Sotomayor D(2), Díaz-Jaime FC(2),
Cerrillo E(2,)(3), Iborra M(2,)(3,)(4), Nos P(2,)(3,)(4), Beltrán B(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Department, La Fe University and Polytechnic Hospital,
Avenida Fernando Abril Martorell 106, 46020, Valencia, Spain.
esteban.digestivo@gmail.com. (2)Gastroenterology Department, La Fe University and
Polytechnic Hospital, Avenida Fernando Abril Martorell 106, 46020, Valencia,
Spain. (3)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Unit, Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research
Group, IIS Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Spain. (4)Networked Biomedical Research
Center for Hepatic and Digestive Diseases (CIBEREHD), Barcelona, Spain.

Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are the two main forms of inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD). The study of immunological pathways involved in the onset of
IBD is of fundamental importance to identify potential biological markers of
disease activity and specific targets for therapy. Removing excess and activated 
circulating leukocytes with adsorptive cytapheresis has been shown to be a
potentially effective treatment for patients with an inflamed bowel. Adsorptive
cytapheresis is a non-pharmacological approach for active IBD, in which known
sources of inflammatory cytokines such as activated myeloid lineage leucocytes
are selectively depleted from the circulatory system. The decrease in
inflammatory load caused by removing these cells is thought to enhance drug
therapy and thereby promote disease remission. The benefit of cytapheresis
appears to rest upon its ability to reduce levels of certain immune cell
populations; however, whether this depletion results in further changes in
lymphocyte populations and cytokine production needs further clarification. In
this review, we aim to summarize existing evidence on the role of cytapheresis in
patients with IBD, its effect on cytokine levels and cellular populations, and to
discuss its potential impact on disease activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4577-z 
PMID: 28432476 


18. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 21:1-6. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1310289. [Epub
ahead of print]

Pan-intestinal capsule endoscopy in patients with postoperative Crohn's disease: 
a pilot study.

Hausmann J(1), Schmelz R(2), Walldorf J(3), Filmann N(4), Zeuzem S(1), Albert
JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine 1 , J.W. Goethe University Hospital
Frankfurt , Frankfurt , Germany. (2)b Department of Internal Medicine 1 ,
University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus , Dresden , Germany. (3)c Department of
Internal Medicine 1 , University Hospital Halle (Saale) , Halle , Germany. (4)d
Institute of Biostatistics and Math Modeling, J.W. Goethe University Hospital
Frankfurt , Frankfurt , Germany.

BACKGROUND: Patients are at increased risk of disease recurrence after surgical
treatment of Crohn's disease. Endoscopic detection of postoperative, ileo-colonic
inflammation is well established, but the potential of pan-intestinal endoscopy
is yet unknown.
METHODS: This prospective multicenter pilot study assessed the value of
pan-intestinal capsule endoscopy using a colon capsule endoscope for the
detection of inflammatory recurrence of Crohn´s disease. Patients who had been
operatively treated for Crohn´s disease were included. Colon capsule endoscopy
was performed 4-8 weeks (d1) and 4-8 months (d2) postoperatively together with
ileo-colonoscopy at d2 using a modified Ruttgeerts index for evaluating disease
activity.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients were included into this study. At d1, significant
disease activity (Ruttgeerts index ≥2) was detected in 3/16 (19%) of the
patients. At d2, half of the patients (6/12) showed active disease, whereas
ileo-colonoscopy revealed significant inflammation in 5/15 (33%). All patients
rated as having active disease by ileo-colonoscopy had been revealed by PICE as
well. These findings influenced the medical treatment in every case.
CONCLUSION: Pan-intestinal capsule endoscopy seems to be feasible in the
postoperative surveillance of Crohn's disease. Disease activity is reliably
detected. Especially, the findings in the small bowl might be a significant
advantage in comparison to ileo-colonoscopy, as they can have significant impact 
on clinical management. Further studies with a larger number of patients are
needed to confirm these findings and might lead to a replacement of the flexible 
ileo-colonoscopy with pan-intestinal capsule endoscopy in this indication in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1310289 
PMID: 28431493 


19. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx053. [Epub ahead of
print]

Development and validation of diagnostic criteria for IBD subtypes with an
emphasis on IBD-Unclassified in children: a multicenter study from the Pediatric 
IBD Porto group of ESPGHAN.

Birimberg-Schwartz L(1), Zucker DM(2), Akriv A(2), Cucchiara S(3), Cameron FL(4),
Wilson DC(4), Lazowska I(5), Yianni L(6), Paul SP(7), Romano C(8), Kolacek S(9), 
Buderus S(10), Pærregaard A(11), Russell RK(12), Escher JC(13), Turner D(1,)(2); 
Pediatric IBD Porto group of ESPGHAN.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Shaare Zedek Medical Center,
Jerusalem, Israel. (2)The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel. (3)Pediatric
Gastroenterology and Liver Unit, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy. (4)Child
Life and Health, University of Edinburgh and Royal Hospital for Children,
Edinburgh, UK. (5)Medical University of Warsaw, Poland. (6)University Hospital
Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Child Health, Southampton, Hampshire, UK.
(7)Paediatric Gastroenterology, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, United
Kingdom. (8)Pediatric Gastroenterology and Endoscopy, University of Messina,
Messina, Italy. (9)Children's Hospital Zagreb, University Medical School,
Croatia. (10)St.-Marien-Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, Bonn, Germany.
(11)Department of Paediatrics, Hvidovre University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow, UK. (13)Pediatric Gastroenterology,
Erasmus MC-Sophia, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Background: The revised Porto criteria identify subtypes of pediatric
inflammatory bowel diseases: ulcerative colitis (UC), atypical UC, Inflammatory
Bowel Disease Unclassified (IBDU), and Crohn's disease (CD). In continuation of
the Porto criteria, we aimed to derive and validate criteria for standardizing
the classification of the IBD subtypes.
Methods: This was a multicenter retrospective longitudinal study from 23 centers 
affiliated with the Porto-group of ESPGHAN. Both a hypothesis-driven judgmental
approach and mathematical CART modeling were utilized for creating a diagnostic
algorithm. Since small bowel inflammation is easily recognized as CD, we focused 
here primarily on the phenotype of colitis.
Results: 749 IBD children were enrolled- 236 (32%) Crohn's colitis, 272 (36%) UC 
and 241 (32%( IBDU (age 10.9±3.6 years) with a median follow-up of 2.8 years (IQR
1.7-4.3). A total of 23 features were clustered in 3 classes according to their
prevalence in UC: 6 class-1 (0% prevalence in UC), 12 class-2 (<5% prevalence)
and 5 class-3 (5-10% prevalence). According to the algorithm, the disease should 
be classified as UC if no features exist in any of the classes. When at least one
feature exist, different combinations classify the disease into atypical UC, IBDU
and CD. The algorithm differentiated UC from CD and IBDU with 80% sensitivity
(95%CI 71-88%) and 84% specificity (77-89%), and CD from IBDU and UC with 78%
sensitivity (67-87%) and 94% specificity (89-97%).
Conclusions: The validated algorithm can adequately classify children with IBD
into small bowel CD, Colonic CD, IBDU, atypical UC and UC.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx053 
PMID: 28430891 


20. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Apr 20. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx055. [Epub ahead of
print]

A 20 year temporal change analysis in incidence, presenting phenotype and
mortality in the Dutch IBDSL cohort - Can diagnostic factors explain the increase
in IBD incidence?

van den Heuvel TRA(1,)(2), Jeuring SFG(1,)(2), Zeegers MP(2,)(3,)(4), van Dongen 
DHE(1), Wolters A(1), Masclee AAM(1,)(2), Hameeteman WH(1), Romberg-Camps MJL(5),
Oostenbrug LE(6), Pierik MJ(1,)(2), Jonkers DM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology - Hepatology,
Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, the Netherlands. (2)NUTRIM
School for Nutrition and Translational Research in Metabolism, Maastricht
University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, the Netherlands. (3)Department of Complex
Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(4)CAPHRI School for Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University
Medical Centre+, Maastricht, the Netherlands. (5)Department of Internal Medicine 
and Gastroenterology-Hepatology, Zuyderland Medical Centre, Sittard-Geleen, the
Netherlands. (6)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology-Hepatology, 
Zuyderland Medical Centre, Heerlen, the Netherlands.

Background: The aim was to study temporal changes in incidence, disease phenotype
at diagnosis, and mortality of adult inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients in
South Limburg, the Netherlands, diagnosed between 1991 and 2010. In addition, the
2010 IBD prevalence was estimated.
Methods: A multi-faceted approach including hospital administrations, the
national pathology registry, and general practitioners led to the identification 
of 1162 patients with Crohn's disease (CD), 1663 with ulcerative colitis (UC) and
84 with unclassified IBD (IBD-U). Temporal changes in incidence, disease
phenotype, and mortality were studied using linear-, multinomial regression
analyses, and standardized mortality rates (SMR), respectively.
Results: The annual incidences increased from 17.90/100,000 in 1991 to
40.36/100,000 in 2010 for IBD, from 5.84/100,000 to 17.49/100,000 for CD, and
from 11.67/100,000 to 21.47/100,000 for UC (p<0.01 for all). A shift towards
milder disease at diagnosis was observed over time (e.g. decrease of complicated 
disease in CD, increase of proctitis in UC). IBD mortality was similar to the
general population (standardized mortality ratio 0.92; 95%CI 0.81-1.05), and did 
not change over time. The estimated IBD prevalence was 830/100,000.
Conclusions: The IBD incidence in South Limburg increased significantly between
1991 and 2010. The shift towards milder disease at diagnosis in parallel with the
improved diagnostics and ability to detect low-grade inflammation was suggestive 
for an important role of diagnostic factors in this increase. Environmental
factors probably played a role as well. The mortality was low and, together with 
the increasing incidence, led to the high prevalence of IBD in South Limburg.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx055 
PMID: 28430884 


21. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr 20. doi: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000879.
[Epub ahead of print]

Clinical experience and diagnostic algorithm of vulval Crohn's disease.

Boxhoorn L(1), Stoof TJ, de Meij T, Hoentjen F, Oldenburg B, Bouma G, Löwenberg
M, van Bodegraven AA, de Boer NKH; Dutch Initiative on Crohn and Colitis.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aGastroenterology and Hepatology bGynaecology cPediatric
Gastroenterology, VU University Medical Center dDepartment of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam eDepartment of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen
fDepartment of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center,
Utrecht gDepartment of Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Internal and Intensive Care 
Medicine, Zuyderland Medical Center, Heerlen-Sittard-Geleen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Vulval Crohn's disease (VCD) is a rare extraintestinal
cutaneous manifestation of Crohn's disease. No consensus on the diagnostic workup
and therapeutic management of this condition has been provided in the current
literature.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Retrospective, multicentre descriptive case series of
female patients diagnosed and treated with VCD. By chart review, data on initial 
symptoms, clinical courses, histologic findings and therapeutic management were
collected.
RESULTS: Fifteen female patients with a median age of 28 years (interquartile
range: 28-44 years) suffering from Crohn's disease of the ileum (27%), colon
(33%) and ileocolon (40%) were included. VCD manifested most frequently with
vulval swelling (93%), pain (80%) and erythema (73%). Histologic analysis
demonstrated granulomatous inflammation in 78% and a mixed inflammatory cell
infiltrate in 67% of cases. In eight (53%) cases, topical therapy resulted in
temporary reduction of vulval symptoms. Combotreatment with immunosuppressive
agents and tumour necrosis factor α inhibitors was the most effective second-line
therapy: five (33%) patients achieved sustained clinical remission with this
therapeutic strategy.
CONCLUSION: The diagnostic workup of VCD is challenging and should be approached 
in a multidisciplinary manner. Histopathologic analysis of the vulva supports the
diagnosis. Topical therapy and systemic treatment with immunosuppressive agents
and tumour necrosis factor α inhibitors are advised to treat this condition.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000879 
PMID: 28430699 


22. J Paediatr Child Health. 2017 Apr 21. doi: 10.1111/jpc.13544. [Epub ahead of
print]

Assessment of disease-specific knowledge in Australian children with inflammatory
bowel disease and their parents.

Day AS(1), Mylvaganam G(2), Shalloo N(2), Clarkson C(2), Leach ST(3), Lemberg
DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Otago Christchurch, Christchurch, New
Zealand. (2)Department of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Sydney Children's
Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (3)School of Women's and Children's
Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

AIMS: Disease-specific knowledge may influence disease outcome and quality of
life in children with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This prospective study
aimed to define IBD-related knowledge in a group of Australian children with IBD 
and their parents using a validated measure of disease-specific knowledge, the
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Knowledge Inventory Device (IBD-KID).
METHODS: Children (less than 18 years) diagnosed with IBD who were members of the
Australian patient support organisation were identified. Each family was sent
copies of the IBD-KID. Children aged 10-18 years and all parents were asked to
complete the IBD-KID and to also provide demographic details and disease
characteristics.
RESULTS: Replies were received from 196 families: 262 parents and 128 children
completed questionnaires. Most children had a diagnosis of Crohn disease (65%)
and 51% were male. Children diagnosed in the preceding 6 years scored higher than
those with longer time since diagnosis. Parents had better scores in the IBD-KID 
than the children (P < 0.0001). Overall, parents and children had poor
understanding of key management issues for IBD (such as side effects of
steroids), important outcomes (e.g. growth) and the use of complementary
therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent patterns of IBD-related knowledge were noted in this
large group of Australian children with IBD and their parents. Measurement of
disease-related knowledge with the IBD-KID can identify gaps in understanding,
thereby permitting focused educational activities. Although these knowledge gaps 
may impact upon outcomes, further prospective studies are now required to
elucidate the relationships between enhanced knowledge and specific outcomes.

© 2017 Paediatrics and Child Health Division (The Royal Australasian College of
Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.13544 
PMID: 28430383 


23. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2017 Jun;19(6):24. doi: 10.1007/s11894-017-0564-y.

How to Approach Lymphocytic Esophagitis.

Nguyen AD(1), Dunbar KB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, 75231, USA.
(2)Esophageal Diseases Center, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Department of Medicine, Dallas VA Medical Center and the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, GI Lab-CA 111-B1, Dallas VAMC, 4500 South Lancaster 
Road, Dallas, TX, 75231, USA. Kerry.Dunbar@utsouthwestern.edu.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Lymphocytic esophagitis (LE) is an unusual esophageal
condition defined by an increased number of lymphocytes in the esophageal
epithelium. With few published studies of LE available, it is unclear whether LE 
is a truly distinct clinical entity or a histological manifestation of other
known gastrointestinal disorders. This review summarizes recent studies of
lymphocytic esophagitis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Studies have suggested that LE may be related to eosinophilic
esophagitis (EoE) or a manifestation of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
There is an association between LE and Crohn's disease in children, but not in
adults. Patients with LE frequently report symptoms of dysphagia and GERD.
Treatment options for LE are limited and involve symptom management similar to
treatment of EoE or GERD, including proton pump inhibitors (PPI), swallowed
topical steroids, and endoscopic dilation. With no formal definition and a
variety of clinical presentations and endoscopic findings, diagnosis and
management of symptomatic LE patients is challenging for clinicians.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-017-0564-y 
PMID: 28429201 


24. Nanomedicine. 2017 Apr 17. pii: S1549-9634(17)30068-0. doi:
10.1016/j.nano.2017.04.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Discrimination between Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's Disease using Phage Display
identified Peptides and Virus-mimicking Synthetic Nanoparticles.

Facchin S(1), Digiglio L(2), D'Incà R(3), Casarin E(4), Dassie E(5), Dettin M(6),
Zamuner A(7), Buda A(8), De Boni M(9), Libera DD(10), D'Urso A(11), Sturniolo
GC(12), Morpurgo M(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, Gastroenterology
Section, University Hospital of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address:
sonia.facchin@unipd.it. (2)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, 
Gastroenterology Section, University Hospital of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic 
address: l.digiglio@alice.it. (3)Department of Surgery, Oncology and
Gastroenterology, Gastroenterology Section, University Hospital of Padua, Padua, 
Italy. Electronic address: dinca@unipd.it. (4)Department of Pharmaceutical and
Pharmacological Sciences, University of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address: 
elisabetta.casarin.81@gmail.com. (5)Department of Molecular Medicine, University 
of Padua, Padua, Italy; Department of Industrial Engineering, University of
Padua, Padua, Italy; Oncological Gastrointestinal Surgery Department, S. Maria
del Prato Hospital, Feltre, Italy; Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine,
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: elisa.dassie@ymail.com. (6)Department of
Industrial Engineering, University of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address:
monica.dettin@unipd.it. (7)Department of Industrial Engineering, University of
Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address: annj.zamuner@phd.unipd.it.
(8)Oncological Gastrointestinal Surgery Department, S. Maria del Prato Hospital, 
Feltre, Italy. Electronic address: andrea.buda@unipd.it. (9)Oncological
Gastrointestinal Surgery Department, S. Maria del Prato Hospital, Feltre, Italy. 
Electronic address: debonimichele24@gmail.com. (10)Oncological Gastrointestinal
Surgery Department, S. Maria del Prato Hospital, Feltre, Italy. Electronic
address: dudellal@tin.it. (11)Oncological Gastrointestinal Surgery Department, S.
Maria del Prato Hospital, Feltre, Italy. Electronic address: ale_durso@inwind.it.
(12)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, Gastroenterology
Section, University Hospital of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address:
gc.sturniolo@unipd.it. (13)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological
Sciences, University of Padua, Padua, Italy. Electronic address:
margherita.morpurgo@unipd.it.

Discrimination between Crohn Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC) is an
unsolved clinical issue in up to 10-15% of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
patients. We developed a method capable to discriminate between the two clinical 
conditions by combining random peptide phage display screenings and nanoparticle 
(NP) based assays. We identified two peptides able to recognize selectively
biopsies of inflamed mucosa of either CD or UC patients. The peptides were
integrated into synthetic virus-mimicking nanoassemblies using a poly-avidin NP
platform. Peptide functionalized nanoassemblies carrying about 400 peptides/NP
were used to optimize a highly selective and specific microplate colorimetric
test which allowed us to distinguish CD from UC in inflamed IBD epithelia
tissues. The method could complement and expand the diagnostic armamentarium in
IBDs, especially when discrimination between these CD and UC is not
straightforward.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2017.04.007 
PMID: 28428053 


25. J Pediatr Surg. 2017 Mar 30. pii: S0022-3468(17)30208-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2017.03.059. [Epub ahead of print]

Outcome of medical management of intraabdominal abscesses in children with
Crohn's disease.

Alkhouri RH(1), Bahia G(2), Smith AC(2), Thomas R(3), Finck C(4), Sayej W(5).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Diseases and Nutrition Center, Women and Children's Hospital of
Buffalo, SUNY at Buffalo. Electronic address: ralkhouri@phs.org. (2)Digestive
Diseases and Nutrition Center, Women and Children's Hospital of Buffalo, SUNY at 
Buffalo. (3)Department of Radiology, Women and Children's Hospital of Buffalo,
SUNY at Buffalo. (4)Digestive Diseases, Hepatology & Nutrition Center,
Connecticut Children's Medical Center, University of Connecticut School of
Medicine. (5)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Connecticut Children's Medical
Center, University of Connecticut School of Medicine.

INTRODUCTION: Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory condition of the
gastrointestinal tract that is complicated by fistulas, strictures, and
intraabdominal abscesses (IAA) in 10%-30% of patients. To avoid surgical
resection of the bowel, medical therapy with antibiotics (Ab) with or without
percutaneous drainage (PD) is first undertaken. Our objectives are to examine the
outcome of IAA in CD patients treated with antibiotics alone vs antibiotics and
PD, and to identify risk factors for medical therapy failure.
METHODS: Charts for patient with CD who were diagnosed between 2004 and 2016 at
the Women and Children's Hospital of Buffalo were retrospectively reviewed. We
compared the two modalities of medical therapy (Ab + PD vs Ab alone) in terms of 
abscess resolution and the need for surgical intervention.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients, ages ranging from 12 to 18years, mean 15.5±2.5,
48% Male with IAA were identified. Overall, 69% of abscesses failed medical
therapy including 87% of the drained abscesses and 50% of nondrained abscesses,
p=0.04. The abscesses that failed medical therapy were more likely to have been
drained (P=0.03) as they were larger in size (P = 0.03), patients were more
likely to have a known CD on immunosuppression (P=0.016), and more likely to have
an associated upper GI disease (P=0.002), when compared to those that were
successful with medical therapy alone.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that the majority of our patients required surgical 
intervention for abscess treatment and resolution of associated findings despite 
drainage. Risk factors include big drainable abscesses, developing IAA while on
immunosuppression, and a more extensive disease with associated fistulae and
strictures. Small undrainable abscesses are likely to resolve with antibiotics
alone, therefore early detection and treatment are essential.
TYPE OF STUDY: Level 2, retrospective study.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2017.03.059 
PMID: 28427855 


26. Pediatr Rheumatol Online J. 2017 Apr 20;15(1):33. doi: 10.1186/s12969-017-0162-4.

Intestinal Behçet and Crohn's disease: two sides of the same coin.

Valenti S(1), Gallizzi R(1), De Vivo D(1), Romano C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Pediatrics, Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood
"G. Barresi", University of Messina, Viale Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina,
Italy. (2)Unit of Pediatrics, Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and
Childhood "G. Barresi", University of Messina, Viale Consolare Valeria, 98124,
Messina, Italy. romanoc@unime.it.

Behçet's disease (BD) and Crohn's disease (CD) are chronic immune-mediated,
inflammatory disorders affecting many different systems (joints, skin, eyes,
gastrointestinal and biliary tracts). Both disorders have fluctuating courses and
when gastrointestinal symptoms are prevalent, differential diagnosis can be
difficult. BD involves the gastrointestinal tract in 10-15% of cases with
localized lesions in the ileocecal region. The clinical picture is heterogeneous 
with various clusters of disease expression. CD is a chronic inflammatory
disorder, which can affect any part of the intestinal tract, as well as
extra-intestinal tissue. Factors that contribute towards the pathogenesis of both
disease include the host's genetic profile, and immune system, and environmental 
factors such as the gut microbiota. The aim of this manuscript is to provide a
narrative review of clinical features of BD and CD, highlighting the importance
of differential diagnosis and therapeutic approach, especially in the presence of
gastrointestinal involvement. A comprehensive search of published literature
using the Pubmed ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ ) database was carried out
to identify all articles published in English from 1999 to October 2016, using 4 
key terms: "Behçet Disease", "Intestinal Behçet's Disease", "Crohn's Disease"
and" Inflammatory Bowel Disease".

DOI: 10.1186/s12969-017-0162-4 
PMCID: PMC5397832
PMID: 28427473 


27. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 20;12(4):e0175099. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175099.
eCollection 2017.

Indicators of suboptimal biologic therapy over time in patients with ulcerative
colitis and Crohn's disease in the United States.

Patel H(1), Lissoos T(2), Rubin DT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Immensity Consulting, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(2)Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc., Chicago, Illinois, United States of
America. (3)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center University of Chicago Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

This study assessed the occurrence of indicators for suboptimal biologic therapy 
among ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) patients over time in the 
United States (US). Data from a large US claims database (2005-2013) were used to
retrospectively identify patients with diagnosed with either UC or CD who were
new biologic users. Indicators of suboptimal biologic therapy included: dose
escalation during the maintenance phase, discontinuation of the initial biologic,
switch to another biologic within 90 days following the last day of supply of the
initial biologic, augmentation with a non-biologic systemic therapy, UC- or
CD-related surgery, UC- or CD-related urgent care, and development of fistula
(for CD only). Kaplan-Meier analyses were used. A total of 1,699 UC and 4,569 CD 
patients were included. Among UC patients, 51.1% and 90.9% experienced ≥1
indicator of suboptimal biologic therapy within 6 months and 36 months of
biologic therapy initiation, respectively. Among CD patients, 54.3% and 91.4%
experienced ≥1 indicator of suboptimal biologic therapy within 6 and 36 months of
biologic therapy initiation, respectively. For both UC and CD patients, the most 
frequent indicators of suboptimal biologic therapy were discontinuation, dose
escalation and augmentation. In conclusion, this study found that the occurrence 
of suboptimal biologic therapy is common among patients with UC and CD, with
approximately 90% of patients experiencing at least one indicator of suboptimal
biologic therapy within 36 months of biologic treatment initiation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175099 
PMID: 28426675 


28. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 19. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001119. [Epub ahead of
print]

Pouch-Related Symptoms and Quality of Life in Patients with Ileal Pouch-Anal
Anastomosis.

Barnes EL(1), Herfarth HH, Sandler RS, Chen W, Jaeger E, Nguyen VM, Robb AR,
Kappelman MD, Martin CF, Long MD.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; †Center for Gastrointestinal Biology
and Disease, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina; and ‡Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) 
has become the standard surgical treatment for the majority of patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) who require colectomy. We evaluated the
prevalence of pouch-related symptoms among the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of 
America Partners cohort and the effect of pouch-related symptoms on
Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System measures.
METHODS: We performed analyses nested in the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of
America Partners cohort. We used bivariate analyses to compare demographics and
medication use among patients with ulcerative colitis or indeterminate colitis
and pouch-related symptoms and those with IPAA without symptoms. We also compared
Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System domains (measured in
T-scores) and short IBD questionnaire quality of life scales between symptomatic 
pouch patients (over the past 6 mo) and those without symptoms.
RESULTS: Among 243 patients reporting a history of IPAA, 199 (82%) reported a
history of pouch symptoms. Patients with recent pouch symptoms demonstrated
higher mean T-scores in pain interference (53.0 versus 45.3; P < 0.001),
depression (51.0 versus 46.4; P = 0.002), and fatigue (56.3 versus 47.0; P <
0.001). Symptomatic pouch patients reported lower mean scores in social role
satisfaction (47.4 versus 54.6) and short IBD questionnaire (4.8 versus 5.8)
(both P < 0.001). These differences were all clinically meaningful.
CONCLUSIONS: In a large sample of patients with IBD, nearly all patients with
IPAA reported a history of pouch symptoms. Patients experiencing symptoms within 
the 6 months before the survey assessment demonstrated clinically meaningful
decrements in patient-reported outcomes in multiple domains of physical and
psychosocial functioning.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001119 
PMID: 28426474 


29. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 19. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001121. [Epub ahead of
print]

Modifiable Risk Factors for Hospital Readmission Among Patients with Inflammatory
Bowel Disease in a Nationwide Database.

Barnes EL(1), Kochar B, Long MD, Kappelman MD, Martin CF, Korzenik JR, Crockett
SD.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; †Center for Gastrointestinal Biology
and Disease, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina; and ‡Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endoscopy, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies suggest that disease activity alone does not
reliably predict hospital readmission among patients with inflammatory bowel
diseases (IBDs). Using a national database, we aimed to further describe the
burden of readmissions for IBD and identify modifiable risk factors.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study using 2013 data from the
Nationwide Readmission Database (NRD). Using International Classification of
Diseases, ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) codes, we identified
adult patients with discharge diagnoses of ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease 
and ascertained diagnoses of anxiety, depression, chronic pain, tobacco use, and 
other comorbidities during index admission. Logistic regression was used to
estimate factors associated with hospital readmission.
RESULTS: Among 52,498 hospitalizations of patients with IBD (63% Crohn's disease 
and 37% ulcerative colitis), 12,407 (24%) were readmitted within 90 days of the
index hospitalization, resulting in roughly $576 million in excess charges. In
multivariable analysis of patients with Crohn's disease, anxiety (odds ratio [OR]
1.31, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.21-1.43), depression (OR 1.27, 95% CI,
1.07-1.50), chronic pain (OR 1.31, 95% CI, 1.18-1.46), and tobacco abuse (OR
1.13, 95% CI, 1.06-1.22) were associated with a significant increase in odds of
readmission. Among patients with ulcerative colitis, anxiety (OR 1.28, 95% CI,
1.14-1.45), depression (OR 1.35, 95% CI, 1.07-1.70), and chronic pain (OR 1.44,
95% CI, 1.21-1.73) were associated with a significant increase in odds of
readmission.
CONCLUSIONS: Readmission occurs frequently in patients with IBD and is costly.
Anxiety, depression, and chronic pain may represent targets for interventions to 
prevent 90-day hospital readmission in this population.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001121 
PMID: 28426473 


30. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 19. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001088. [Epub ahead of
print]

Imaging in Patients with Crohn's Disease: Trends in Abdominal CT/MRI Utilization 
and Radiation Exposure Considerations over a 10-Year Period.

Kordbacheh H(1), Baliyan V, Serrao J, Gee MS, Yajnik V, Sahani DV, Kambadakone
AR.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Radiology, and †Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: To study the trends in utilization of computed tomography (CT) and
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with Crohn's disease and to evaluate
changes in CT radiation exposure over a 10-year period.
METHODS: In this institutional review board-approved single-institution
retrospective study, we included patients who underwent CT and MRIs for
evaluation of Crohn's disease between 2006 and 2015. A total of 3196 CTs and 1924
MR scans were performed in 2156 patients (mean age: 34.8 ± 17.71 yr; range: 3-91 
yr) for initial diagnosis or follow-up of Crohn's disease between 2006 and 2015. 
Trends in CT/MR utilization was assessed by comparing the volume of CT/MRI
studies performed each year. The changes in CT radiation exposure over the study 
period were estimated and compared.
RESULTS: The annual combined CT/MR utilization demonstrated a 1.9-fold rise over 
the last decade (2006: n = 358, 2015: n = 681, P < 0.001, r = 0.96). It was
predominantly because of a substantial growth (9.2-fold increase) in the MR scan 
volume (2006: n = 37, 2015: n = 341, P < 0.001, r = 0.93), whereas CT volume did 
not show significant change (2006: n = 321, 2015: n = 340, P = 0.6). Over this
same period, there was a 59.4% reduction in mean radiation exposure (2006: CT
dose indexvol 16.9 ± 7.1 mGy, 2015: CT dose indexvol 6.87 ± 4.62 mGy, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: A 9-fold growth in annual MR scan volume contributed to a nearly
2-fold rise in yearly cross-sectional imaging utilization in Crohn's patients
between 2006 and 2015. Rising trend in imaging utilization paralleled a 60%
reduction of CT radiation exposure.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001088 
PMID: 28426472 


31. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):E22-E23. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001124.

Is Mesalamine Effective for the Induction of Remission in Crohn's Disease?

Bonovas S(1), Peyrin-Biroulet L, Danese S.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Gastroenterology, IBD Center, Humanitas Clinical and Research
Center, Milan, Italy †Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology and Inserm U954,
University Hospital of Nancy, Lorraine University, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France
‡Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001124 
PMID: 28426460 


32. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):791-797. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001050.

Anti-TNFα Treatment After Surgical Resection for Crohn's Disease Is Effective
Despite Previous Pharmacodynamic Failure.

Assa A(1), Bronsky J, Kolho KL, Zarubova K, de Meij T, Ledder O, Sladek M, van
Biervliet S, Strisciuglio C, Shamir R.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Pediatrics, Schneider Children's Medical Center, Institute of
Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Diseases, Petach Tikva, Israel; †Department
of Pediatrics, The Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv,
Israel; ‡Department of Paediatrics, Second Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University and University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic; §Department of 
Pediatrics, Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland;
‖Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, VU University Medical Center,
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; ¶Department of Pediatrics, Juliet Keidan Institute of
Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem,
Affiliated to Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel; **Department of Pediatrics,
Polish-American Children's Hospital, Krakow, Poland; ††Department of Pediatrics, 
Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium; and ‡‡Department of Pediatrics,
University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The outcome of patients with Crohn's disease who failed anti-tumor
necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNFα) therapy despite adequate serum drug levels
(pharmacodynamic failure) is unclear. We aimed to assess such pediatric patients 
who underwent intestinal resection and were re-treated with the same anti-TNFα
agent postoperatively.
METHODS: Pediatric patients with Crohn's disease who underwent intestinal
resection and were treated with anti-TNFα agents postoperatively were assessed
retrospectively. Patients were stratified to those with preoperative anti-TNFα
pharmacodynamic failure and those with no preoperative anti-TNFα treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 53 children were included, 18 with pharmacodynamic failure
and 35 controls. Median age at intestinal resection was 14.8 years with 23 (43%) 
girls. The median time from intestinal resection to anti-TNFα initiation was 8
months (interquartile range 4-14 months). At the time of postoperative anti-TNFα 
initiation there were no differences in clinical, laboratory, and anthropometric 
measures between groups. Similar proportions of patients from both groups were in
clinical remission on anti-TNFα treatment after 12 months and at the end of
follow-up (1.8 years, interquartile range, 1-2.9 years): 89% versus 88.5% and 83%
versus 80% for pharmacodynamic failure patients and controls, respectively; P =
0.9. No significant differences were observed at 14 weeks and 12 months of
postoperative anti-TNFα treatment including endoscopic remission rate and fecal
calprotectin. Both groups significantly improved all measures during
postoperative anti-TNFα treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric patients with Crohn's disease who failed anti-TNFα therapy
despite adequate drug levels and underwent intestinal resection can be re-treated
with the same agent for postoperative recurrence with high success rate similar
to that of anti-TNFα naive patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001050 
PMID: 28426458 


33. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):767-774. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001046.

Race Differences in Initial Presentation, Early Treatment, and 1-year Outcomes of
Pediatric Crohn's Disease: Results from the ImproveCareNow Network.

Dotson JL(1), Cho M, Bricker J, Kappelman MD, Chisolm DJ, Tomer G, Crandall WV;
ImproveCareNow Pediatric IBD Learning Health System.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio; †The Center for Innovation in Pediatric
Practice, The Research Institute, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio;
‡Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Center for Children's
Digestive Health, Advocate Children's Hospital, Chicago, Illinois; §Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Pediatrics, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; and ‖Division of Pediatric 
Gastroenterology and Nutrition, The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York.

BACKGROUND: Racially disparate care has been shown to contribute to suboptimal
health care outcomes for minorities. Using the ImproveCareNow network, we
investigated differences in management and outcomes of pediatric patients with
Crohn's disease at diagnosis and 1-year postdiagnosis.
METHODS: ImproveCareNow is a learning health network for pediatric inflammatory
bowel disease. It contains prospective, longitudinal data from outpatient
encounters. This retrospective study included all patients with Crohn's disease
≤21 years, September 2006 to October 2014, with the first recorded encounter ≤90 
days from date of diagnosis and an encounter 1 year ±60 days. We examined the
effect of race on remission rate and treatment at diagnosis and 1 year from
diagnosis using t-tests, Wilcoxon rank-sum tests, χ statistic, and Fisher's exact
tests, where appropriate, followed by univariate regression models.
RESULTS: Nine hundred seventy-six patients (Black = 118 (12%), White = 858 (88%),
mean age = 13 years, 63% male) from 39 sites were included. Black children had a 
higher percentage of Medicaid insurance (44% versus 11%, P < 0.001). At
diagnosis, Black children had more active disease according to physician global
assessment (P = 0.027), but not by short Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index
(P = 0.67). Race differences in treatment were not identified. Black children had
lower hematocrit (34.8 versus 36.7, P < 0.001) and albumin levels (3.6 versus
3.9, P = 0.001). At 1 year, Black children had more active disease according to
physician global assessment (P = 0.016), but not by short Pediatric Crohn's
Disease Activity Index (P = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: Black children with Crohn's disease may have more severe disease
than White children based on physician global assessment. Neither disease
phenotype differences at diagnosis nor treatment differences at 1-year follow-up 
were identified.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001046 
PMID: 28426457 


34. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):739-752. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001086.

Expression and Localization of miR-21 and miR-126 in Mucosal Tissue from Patients
with Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Thorlacius-Ussing G(1), Schnack Nielsen B, Andersen V, Holmstrøm K, Pedersen AE.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Immunology and Microbiology, and †Odontology, Faculty of
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark;
‡Bioneer A/S, Hørsholm, Denmark; and §Research Unit for Molecular Diagnostic and 
Clinical Research, Hospital of Southern Jutland, Aabenraa, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that guide degradation of
mRNA and regulate protein expression. miRNA based diagnostic biomarkers for
ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) are emerging but information
about the cellular localization of many miRNAs is limited and more detailed
histologic evaluation of miRNA expression patterns is needed to understand their 
immunobiological function.
METHODS: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded colon biopsies from 10 patients with UC
and 8 patients with CD together with 9 controls were examined by RT-qPCR and
quantitative in situ hybridization (ISH). The cellular expression of miR-21
positive cells was further characterized using immunohistochemical cellular
markers.
RESULTS: Increased levels of miR-21 and miR-126 were found in UC compared with
controls and increased levels of miR-21 were observed in UC compared with CD by
both RT-qPCR and quantitative in situ hybridization. miR-126 was localized to
endothelial cells and miR-21 to cells in the lamina propria. Multiplex
immunohistochemical staining showed miR-21 expression in subsets of CD68
macrophages and CD3 T cells in UC, however, far the majority of the miR-21
positive cells could not be categorized among CD68, CD3, and CD19 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that miR-126 levels are increased in UC and
expressed in endothelial cells. miR-21 is expressed in subsets of
monocytes/macrophages and T cells and may work as a potential biomarker to
distinguish UC from CD. Quantitative in situ hybridization may be a powerful tool
for such analysis as it combines overall expression with validation of cellular
origin. Studies in larger cohorts may confirm this for clinical diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001086 
PMID: 28426456 


35. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):728-738. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001096.

Digoxin Attenuates Murine Experimental Colitis by Downregulating Th17-related
Cytokines.

Tani S(1), Takano R, Tamura S, Oishi S, Iwaizumi M, Hamaya Y, Takagaki K, Nagata 
T, Seto S, Horii T, Kosugi I, Iwashita T, Osawa S, Furuta T, Miyajima H, Sugimoto
K.

Author information: 
(1)*First Department of Medicine, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Japan; Departments of †Health Science, ‡Infectious Diseases,
§Regenerative and infectious Pathology, and ‖Endoscopic and Photodynamic
Medicine, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Japan; and ¶Center 
for Clinical Research, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Digoxin, a cardiac glycoside used for the treatment of heart failure,
was reported to inhibit the retinoid-related orphan receptor gamma t (RORγt) and 
attenuate the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and arthritis
in mice. However, the effects of digoxin in a mice model of inflammatory bowel
disease have not been elucidated.
METHODS: Colitis was induced in severe combined immunodeficiency mice by adoptive
transfer of CD45RB CD4 T cells. Digoxin or a vehicle was injected into mice with 
colitis intraperitoneally every other day and changes in body weight were
evaluated. After 6 to 8 weeks, the treated mice were killed and evaluated for
histological score, T-cell subset, and cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA) expression
in the colonic tissue.
RESULTS: Wasting disease and histological damage were significantly attenuated in
digoxin-treated mice with colitis compared with those in the vehicle-treated
mice. In addition, the mRNAs of Th17-related cytokines were downregulated,
whereas those of interleukin-10 were upregulated in the colonic mucosa of
digoxin-treated mice. However, unexpectedly, the mRNA expression level of tumor
necrosis factor alpha did not decrease in the colonic mucosa of digoxin-treated
mice with colitis. This observation suggests that digoxin may ameliorate colitis 
by a tumor necrosis factor alpha-independent pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has shown for the first time that treatment with digoxin 
can ameliorate murine experimental colitis. This finding suggests that the
suppression of Th17 using reagents such as digoxin could be effective in treating
Crohn's disease refractory to anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001096 
PMID: 28426455 


36. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):721-726. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001113.

Indications for Mode of Delivery in Pregnant Women with Inflammatory Bowel
Disease.

Burke KE(1), Haviland MJ, Hacker MR, Shainker SA, Cheifetz AS.

Author information: 
(1)*Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Division of Gastroenterology, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts; †Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts; and ‡Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Reasons for the increased incidence of cesarean delivery among women 
with inflammatory bowel disease remain unclear. We assessed cesarean delivery
incidence and factors influencing mode of delivery in women with inflammatory
bowel disease.
METHODS: We performed a 10-year retrospective cohort study of nulliparous women
who delivered a singleton infant at our institution. We compared the risk of each
mode of delivery in women with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis with women 
without inflammatory bowel disease. We assessed mode of delivery indications for 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease and whether cesarean deliveries were
planned.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of cesarean delivery among women with Crohn's
disease (24/59; 40.7%) was similar to that among women without inflammatory bowel
disease (7868/21,805; 36.1%) (risk ratio 1.1 [95% confidence interval, 0.83,
1.5]; P = 0.46), but was increased in the subgroups with active and inactive
perianal disease (risk ratio 2.3; P < 0.01). Women with ulcerative colitis had a 
1.8-fold increased relative risk of cesarean delivery (41/65; 63.1%) (95%
confidence interval, 1.5, 2.1; P < 0.01), with highest incidence in patients with
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Forty-nine percent of ulcerative colitis and 66.7% 
of Crohn's disease cesarean deliveries were unplanned, with only 1 unplanned
delivery performed for active inflammatory bowel disease. Most unplanned
deliveries were for arrest of descent/dilation and nonreassuring fetal heart
tracings. Seventy-five percent of planned cesarean deliveries were for
inflammatory bowel disease-related indications.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with ulcerative colitis and perianal Crohn's disease have an
increased incidence of cesarean delivery. At least half of cesarean deliveries
are unplanned.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001113 
PMID: 28426453 


37. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):712-720. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001112.

Defining the Most Appropriate Delivery Mode in Women with Inflammatory Bowel
Disease: A Systematic Review.

Foulon A(1), Dupas JL, Sabbagh C, Chevreau J, Rebibo L, Brazier F, Bouguen G,
Gondry J, Fumery M.

Author information: 
(1)*Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit, Amiens University Hospital, Université de
Picardie Jules Verne, Amiens, France; †Gastroenterology Unit, Amiens University
Hospital, Université de Picardie Jules Verne, Amiens, France; ‡Digestive and
Metabolic surgery Unit, Amiens University Hospital, Université de Picardie Jules 
Verne, Amiens, France; and §Gastroenterology Unit, CHU Pontchaillou, Rennes,
France.

INTRODUCTION: High cesarean section (CS) rates are observed in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but limited data are available to support this 
decision. We conducted a comprehensive review to evaluate the most appropriate
mode of delivery in women with IBD according to disease phenotype and activity,
as well as surgical history.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched MEDLINE (source PubMed) and international
conference abstracts, and included all studies that evaluated digestive outcome
after delivery in patients with IBD.
RESULTS: A total of 41 articles or abstracts were screened, and 18 studies were
considered in this review, with sample sizes ranging from 4 to 229 patients and
follow-up ranging from 2 months to 7.7 years. Pooled CS rates in patients without
Perianal Crohn's disease (PCD), healed PCD or active PCD, were 27%, 43%, and 46%,
respectively. Regarding the median rate of new PCD (3.0% [IQR, 1.5-11.5] versus
6.5% [0-19.7]) or PCD recurrence (13.5% [3.2-32.7] versus 45% [0-58]), no
increase was observed in patients with vaginal delivery compared to CS, but for
patients with an active disease, worsening of symptoms was noted in two-thirds of
cases. Episiotomy, perianal tears, and instrumental delivery did not influence
the incidence of PCD. In patients with ileal pouch anal anastomosis,
uncomplicated vaginal delivery seemed to moderately influence pouch function,
with no significant difference in terms of overall continence, daytime, or
night-time stool frequency, or incontinence. However, these parameters seemed
negatively impacted by a complicated vaginal delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: New long-term data from well-designed studies are needed, but our
review suggests that systematic CS in patients suffering from IBD should probably
be limited to women at risk of perineal tears and obstetric injuries, with an
active PCD, or with ileal pouch anal anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001112 
PMID: 28426452 


38. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):695-701. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001068.

Quality of Care and Outcomes Among Hospitalized Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Patients: A Multicenter Retrospective Study.

Nguyen GC(1), Murthy SK, Bressler B, Lam MCW, Alali A, Toumi A, Reinglas J,
Rampersad A, Weizman AV, Afif W; CINERGI group.

Author information: 
(1)*Mount Sinai Hospital Centre for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Division of
Gastroenterology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; †Institute for
Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; ‡Department of Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital IBD Centre, University of
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; §Division of Gastroenterology, St. Paul's
Hospital, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada;
and ‖Division of Gastroenterology, McGill University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Half of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) require
hospitalization. We sought to characterize inpatient quality indicators of care
and outcomes during IBD-related hospitalizations at 4 major IBD referral centers 
in Canada.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter retrospective cohort study of patients with
IBD admitted from 2011 to 2013 to tertiary centers in Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, 
and Vancouver. We assessed the following inpatient indicators of care:
pharmacological venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis, Clostridium difficile
testing, and medical rescue therapy for steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis
(UC). We also evaluated rates of VTE, C. difficile infection, and IBD-related
surgery.
RESULTS: There were 837 patients hospitalized for IBD (Crohn's disease, 59%; UC, 
41%). The proportion of patients with IBD who received VTE prophylaxis and C.
difficile testing were 77% and 82%, respectively, although these indicators
varied significantly by center and admitting specialty. Patients admitted under
surgeons were more likely than those admitted under gastroenterologists to
receive VTE prophylaxis (84% versus 74%, P = 0.016) but less likely to be tested 
for C. difficile (41% versus 88%, P < 0.0001). The rate of VTE was the same for
those who did and did not receive VTE prophylaxis (2.2 per 1000 hospital-days).
Among the 14 VTE events, 79% had received prophylaxis, but only 36% within 24
hours of admission. Among steroid-refractory UC patients, 70% received rescue
therapy within 7 days of steroid initiation. The proportion of patients with UC
and CD who required respective bowel surgery was 18% and 20%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There are opportunities to optimize quality of care among
hospitalized patients with IBD.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001068 
PMID: 28426451 


39. Nutrients. 2017 Apr 20;9(4). pii: E410. doi: 10.3390/nu9040410.

Beneficial Effect of Voluntary Exercise on Experimental Colitis in Mice Fed a
High-Fat Diet: The Role of Irisin, Adiponectin and Proinflammatory Biomarkers.

Mazur-Bialy AI(1), Bilski J(2), Wojcik D(3), Brzozowski B(4), Surmiak M(5),
Hubalewska-Mazgaj M(6), Chmura A(7), Magierowski M(8), Magierowska K(9), Mach
T(10), Brzozowski T(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ergonomics and Exercise Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Jagiellonian University Medical College, 20 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow,
Poland. agnieszka.mazur@uj.edu.pl. (2)Department of Ergonomics and Exercise
Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
20 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. jan.bilski@uj.edu.pl.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical
College, 16 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. dagmarawojcik@interia.pl.
(4)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Clinic, Jagiellonian University Medical
College, 5 Sniadeckich Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. bartek.brzozowski@op.pl.
(5)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical
College, 16 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. marcin.surmiak@uj.edu.pl.
(6)Department of Genetic Research and Nutrigenomics, Malopolska Centre of
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, 7A Gronostajowa Street, 30-387 Cracow,
Poland. magdalena.hubalewska@uj.edu.pl. (7)Department of Ergonomics and Exercise 
Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
20 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. afrasik@wp.pl. (8)Department of
Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 16
Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. m.magierowski@uj.edu.pl.
(9)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical
College, 16 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. k.jasnos@interia.pl.
(10)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Clinic, Jagiellonian University Medical
College, 5 Sniadeckich Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland. tmach@su.krakow.pl.
(11)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Jagiellonian University
Medical College, 16 Grzegorzecka Street, 31-531 Cracow, Poland.
mpbrzozo@cyf-kr.edu.pl.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are a heterogeneous group of disorders
exhibited by two major phenotypic forms: Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. 
Although the aetiology of IBD is unknown, several factors coming from the adipose
tissue and skeletal muscles, such as cytokines, adipokines and myokines, were
suggested in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis; however, it has not been
extensively studied whether voluntary exercise can ameliorate that disorder. We
explored the effect of moderate exercise (i.e., voluntary wheel running) on the
disease activity index (DAI), colonic blood flow (CBF), plasma irisin and
adiponectin levels and real-time PCR expression of proinflammatory markers in
mesenteric fat in mice with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) colitis fed
a high-fat diet (HFD) compared to those on a standard chow diet (SD). Macroscopic
and microscopic colitis in sedentary SD mice was accompanied by a significant
fall in CBF, some increase in colonic tissue weight and a significant increase in
the plasma levels of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), IL-6, monocyte
chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) and IL-13 (p < 0.05). In sedentary HFD mice,
colonic lesions were aggravated, colonic tissue weight increased and the plasma
TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, IL-1β and leptin levels significantly increased.
Simultaneously, a significant decrease in the plasma irisin and adiponectin
levels was observed in comparison with SD mice (p < 0.05). Exercise significantly
decreased macroscopic and microscopic colitis, substantially increased CBF and
attenuated the plasma TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, IL-1β and leptin levels while raising
the plasma irisin and the plasma and WAT concentrations of adiponectin in HFD
mice (p < 0.05). We conclude that: (1) experimental colitis is exacerbated in HFD
mice, possibly due to a fall in colonic microcirculation and an increase in the
plasma and mesenteric fat content of proinflammatory biomarkers; and (2)
voluntary physical activity can attenuate the severity of colonic damage in mice 
fed a HFD through the release of protective irisin and restoration of plasma
adiponectin.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9040410 
PMID: 28425943 


40. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 Feb 22. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001554.
[Epub ahead of print]

Detailed Follow-up Study of Pediatric Orofacial Granulomatosis Patients.

Haaramo A(1), Alapulli H, Aine L, Saarnisto U, Tuokkola J, Ruuska T, Sipponen T, 
Pitkäranta A, Kolho KL.

Author information: 
(1)*Childrens Hospital, Helsinki University Hospital and Helsinki University,
Helsinki, Finland†Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery,
Helsinki University Hospital and Helsinki University, Helsinki,
Finland‡Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Diseases, Helsinki University
Hospital and Helsinki University, Helsinki, Finland§Department of Dentistry,
Tampere University Hospital and Tampere University, Tampere, Finland||Department 
of Gastroenterology, Tampere University Hospital and Tampere University, Tampere,
Finland¶Department of Gastroenterology, Helsinki University Hospital and Helsinki
University, Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVES: Orofacial granulomatosis (OFG) is a chronic inflammatory condition
affecting the orofacial area. Its connection to Crohn's disease (CD) is debated. 
Our aim was to describe a cohort of pediatric OFG patients in detail, study the
long-term behavior of OFG and evaluate factors predicting CD in OFG patients.
METHODS: We invited patients diagnosed with OFG at two university hospitals,
Finland for a follow-up appointment. Patients (n = 29) were examined by a dentist
and an otorhinolaryngologist using a structural schema. Orofacial findings were
also recorded using digital photographing. Patients filled in questionnaires
about general health and special diets. Patients' nutrition was evaluated from
food records. The findings were compared between patients with OFG only and OFG
with CD.
RESULTS: Patients with CD had more findings in the orofacial area (total score
for orofacial findings median 11) compared to patients with OFG only (total score
median 7.5). There was no statistically significant difference in the type of
lesions between these groups, except the upper lip was more often affected in
patients with CD (n = 11) than in patients with OFG only (n = 0). Most of the
patients had normal otorhinolaryngological findings. All patients with elevated
anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody A levels had CD (n = 6) and they presented
with more orofacial findings (total score) than patients with normal levels of
anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody A (P = 0.0311).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term follow-up of pediatric onset OFG patients shows good
prognosis. OFG patients do not seem to have otorhinolaryngological comorbidity.
Anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody A might serve as a factor to indicate the 
possible presence of underlying CD in OFG patients, but further studies are
requested.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001554 
PMID: 28425922 


41. Sociol Health Illn. 2017 Apr 20. doi: 10.1111/1467-9566.12561. [Epub ahead of
print]

'It seems like you're going around in circles': recurrent biographical disruption
constructed through the past, present and anticipated future in the narratives of
young adults with inflammatory bowel disease.

Saunders B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Arthritis Research UK Primary Care Centre, Keele University.

Biographical disruption and related concepts continue to be widely drawn upon in 
explaining how individuals experience chronic illness. Through in-depth
examination of the narrative experiences of two young adults with inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD), this article aims to contribute to the continuing
theoretical elaboration of biographical disruption, and in turn offer new
insights into how young adults experience this condition. The cases are analysed 
from an interaction-based, constructionist perspective, through which it is
argued that the relapse-remission nature of IBD can give rise to a particular
form of recurrent biographical disruption, constructed in narrative through a
complex configuration of past, present and anticipated future experiences. The
two young adults are found to give different meaning to this recurrent disruption
in terms of its significance and consequences - whilst Samuel represents an
ongoing cycle of profound disruption and biographical reinstatement, Edith
normalises the cycle of disruption and its role in her ongoing biography.
Therefore, moving beyond the notion of 'normal illness' observed in previous
research literature, the concept of 'normal recurrent disruption' is proposed.
Finally, it is argued that this recurrent biographical disruption may be
experienced particularly severely in young adulthood owing to the unique
pressures and expectations of this lifestage.

© 2017 Foundation for the Sociology of Health & Illness.

DOI: 10.1111/1467-9566.12561 
PMID: 28425115 


42. Virchows Arch. 2017 Apr 19. doi: 10.1007/s00428-017-2132-0. [Epub ahead of print]

Histopathological findings of extra-ileal manifestations at initial diagnosis of 
Crohn's disease-related ileitis.

Brown IS(1,)(2,)(3), Miller G(4,)(5), Bettington ML(4,)(5,)(6), Rosty
C(4,)(5,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Envoi Specialist Pathologists, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
IanBrown@envoi.com.au. (2)Anatomical Pathology, Pathology Queensland, Royal
Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Brisbane, QLD, Australia. IanBrown@envoi.com.au.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
IanBrown@envoi.com.au. (4)Envoi Specialist Pathologists, Brisbane, QLD,
Australia. (5)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD,
Australia. (6)The Conjoint Gastroenterology Laboratory, QIMR Berghofer Medical
Research Institute, Brisbane, QLD, Australia. (7)Department of Pathology, The
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-017-2132-0 
PMID: 28424866 


43. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 20:1-5. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1315740. [Epub
ahead of print]

The utility of fecal calprotectin in predicting the need for escalation of
therapy in inflammatory bowel disease.

Kwapisz L(1), Gregor J(1), Chande N(1), Yan B(1), Ponich T(1), Mosli M(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology , London Health
Sciences Centre (LHSC), Western University , London , Ontario , Canada. (2)b
Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology , King Abdulaziz University 
, Jeddah , Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Fecal calprotectin is an important biomarker used in the
evaluation of inflammatory bowel disease. It has proven to be an effective tool
in initial screening as well monitoring response to therapy. The aim of this
study is to examine the utility of fecal calprotectin both as a predictor for the
escalation of therapy in established inflammatory bowel disease and as a
predictor of de novo diagnosis.
METHODS: Patients with signs and symptoms concerning for inflammatory bowel
disease presenting to outpatient clinics were recruited to provide fecal
calprotectin stool samples prior to endoscopic evaluation. Patients were followed
up for at least one year and monitored clinically for any change in
symptomatology, escalation of therapy or development of IBD, confirmed
endoscopically.
RESULTS: A total of 126 patients, of whom 72 were known to have underlying
inflammatory bowel disease, were included in the final analysis. Among the
patients with elevated fecal calprotectin levels and known inflammatory bowel
disease, 66% (33/50) went on to have escalation of therapy within 12 months
compared to 18% (4/22) if the fecal calprotectin levels were in the normal range 
(p < .0001). For the remaining patients who at baseline did not have inflammatory
bowel disease and a normal endoscopic evaluation, elevated fecal calprotectin
resulted in no cases (0/17) of a new diagnosis in the next 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Fecal calprotectin is a useful test for predicting escalation of
therapy in established inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1315740 
PMID: 28423962 


44. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Apr;96(16):e6635. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006635.

Does long-term efficacy differ between infliximab and adalimumab after 1 year of 
continuous administration?: A STROBE-compliant retrospective cohort study.

Otake H(1), Matsumoto S, Mashima H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical
University, Saitama, Saitama Prefecture, Japan.

Although biologics are important inflammatory bowel disease therapies, loss of
response (LOR) remains problematic. We evaluated LOR to biologics in our Crohn
disease (CD) patients receiving biologics. Of 137 biologic-treated CD patients,
68 continuously receiving the same biologic type for at least 1 year were divided
into 2 groups: infliximab (IFX) (n = 39) and adalimumab (ADA) (n = 29). Clinical 
courses were compared at biologic introduction and at 1 year. Both groups were
retrospectively analyzed for LOR at and beyond 1 year after biologic introduction
(study endpoint). Patients were then divided into LOR and non-LOR groups to
identify factors predicting LOR. At 1 year after biologic introduction, decreases
in CD activity index were 94 ± 105 in the IFX and 102 ± 89 in the ADA group, not 
significantly different. Blood test data did not differ between these groups. LOR
occurred in 14 IFX and 5 ADA group patients. Event-free rates at 5 years after
biologic introduction were 62% in the IFX and 61% in the ADA group. Patients
achieving clinical remission 1 year after biologic introduction accounted for 69%
of the IFX and 90% of the ADA group, while respective rates of secondary LOR at 5
years were 32% and 26%. C-reactive protein (CRP) at biologic introduction (odds
ratio [OR], 1.5; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-2.06; P = .02) and age at CD 
onset (OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 1.01-1.20; P = .03) predicted LOR. As to IFX and ADA
efficacies after 1 year of administration, there were no significant differences 
in event-free rates for the 5 years after biologic introduction or the secondary 
LOR rate. CRP at biologic introduction and age at CD onset predicted LOR.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006635 
PMID: 28422861 


45. J Intern Med. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1111/joim.12611. [Epub ahead of print]

Vagus nerve stimulation: a new promising therapeutic tool in inflammatory bowel
disease.

Bonaz B(1,)(2), Sinniger V(1,)(2), Pellissier S(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)University Clinic of Hepato-Gastroenterology, University Hospital, Grenoble,
France. (2)University Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble Institute of Neurosciences (GIN), 
Inserm (U1216), Grenoble, France. (3)Laboratoire Inter-Universitaire de
Psychologie, Personnalité, Cognition et Changement Social (LIP/PC2S), University 
Savoie Mont-Blanc, Chambéry, France.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), that is Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative
colitis, affects about 1.5 million persons in the USA and 2.2 million in Europe. 
The pathophysiology of IBD involves immunological, genetic and environmental
factors. The treatment is medico-surgical but suspensive. Anti-TNFα agents have
revolutionized the treatment of IBD but have side effects. In addition, a
non-negligible percentage of patients with IBD stop or take episodically their
treatment. Consequently, a nondrug therapy targeting TNFα through a physiological
pathway, devoid of major side effects and with a good cost-effectiveness ratio,
would be of interest. The vagus nerve has dual anti-inflammatory properties
through its afferent (i.e. hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis) and efferent
(i.e. the anti-TNFα effect of the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway) fibres. 
We have shown that there is an inverse relationship between vagal tone and plasma
TNFα level in patients with CD, and have reported, for the first time, that
chronic vagus nerve stimulation has anti-inflammatory properties in a rat model
of colitis and in a pilot study performed in seven patients with moderate CD. Two
of these patients failed to improve after 3 months of vagus nerve stimulation but
five were in deep remission (clinical, biological and endoscopic) at 6 months of 
follow-up and vagal tone was restored. No major side effects were observed. Thus,
vagus nerve stimulation provides a new therapeutic option in the treatment of CD.

© 2017 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.12611 
PMID: 28421634 


46. Virchows Arch. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1007/s00428-017-2125-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Small bowel adenocarcinoma complicating Crohn's disease: a single-centre
experience emphasizing the importance of screening for dysplasia.

Grolleau C(1), Pote NM(1,)(2), Guedj NS(1,)(2), Zappa M(3), Theou-Anton N(4),
Bouhnik Y(2,)(5), Panis Y(2,)(6), Cazals-Hatem DL(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, AP-HP, Hôpital Beaujon, 92110, Clichy, France.
(2)University Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75018, Paris, France.
(3)Department of Radiology, AP-HP, Hôpital Beaujon, 92110, Clichy, France.
(4)Department of Genetic, AP-HP, Hôpital Bichat, 75018, Paris, France.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, AP-HP, Hôpital Beaujon, 92110, Clichy, France.
(6)Department of Colorectal Surgery, AP-HP, Hôpital Beaujon, 92110, Clichy,
France. (7)Department of Pathology, AP-HP, Hôpital Beaujon, 92110, Clichy,
France. dominique.cazals-hatem@aphp.fr. (8)Service d'Anatomie-Pathologie, Hôpital
Beaujon, 100 Boulevard du Général Leclerc, 92110, Clichy, France.
dominique.cazals-hatem@aphp.fr.

Small bowel adenocarcinoma (SBA) complicating Crohn's disease (CD) is rare and
generally found incidentally on surgical specimens. We report our experience in
CD-associated SBA observed this last decade in a tertiary referral centre in
order to update its incidence, clinical presentation and pathological features.
All SBAs diagnosed in patients who underwent surgery for CD between 2006 and 2016
were retrospectively included. Clinico-pathological characteristics were
reviewed, and follow-up was updated. SBA was diagnosed in 9 (1.7%) of 522
patients who underwent SB resection(s) after a median CD duration of 15 years
[0-32]. The median age at diagnosis was 46 years. Seven (78%) patients had
obstructive symptoms refractory to medical treatment. Pre-operative biopsy
revealed neoplasia in five (56%) patients (dysplasia in three and SBA in two)
justifying the surgery. Two (29%) of the seven patients with imaging had features
suggestive of cancer. In all specimens, SBA developed in active ileitis with
adjacent dysplasia. Stage I low-grade tubulo-glandular adenocarcinoma was
observed in 33% of patients. Stage IV high-grade adenocarcinoma was observed in
56% of patients, and mucinous/signet ring cell differentiation predominated in
44% of patients. Molecular analysis showed no BRAF mutation, a KRAS mutation in
one case and a microsatellite instability phenotype suggestive of Lynch syndrome 
in one case. After a median follow-up of 24 months [7-82], four (44%) patients
died with advanced stage IV SBA. This surgical series confirms that CD-associated
SBA is rare with an incidence of 1.7%. Adjacent dysplasia was present in all
specimens and was identified before surgery in all patients who benefit from
ileal biopsies. This strengthens the importance of screening all longstanding CD 
by endoscopy if surgery is not considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-017-2125-z 
PMID: 28421339 


47. Pediatr Radiol. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1007/s00247-017-3848-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Defining the ultrasound longitudinal natural history of newly diagnosed pediatric
small bowel Crohn disease treated with infliximab and infliximab-azathioprine
combination therapy.

Dillman JR(1), Dehkordy SF(2), Smith EA(2), DiPietro MA(2), Sanchez R(2),
DeMatos-Maillard V(3), Adler J(3), Zhang B(4), Trout AT(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 3333
Burnet Ave., ML5031, Cincinnati, OH, 45229-3039, USA. jonathan.dillman@cchmc.org.
(2)Department of Radiology, Section of Pediatric Radiology, C. S. Mott Children's
Hospital, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (3)Department
of Pediatrics, Division of Gastroenterology, C. S. Mott Children's Hospital,
University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (4)Division of
Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH, USA. (5)Department of Radiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital
Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Ave., ML5031, Cincinnati, OH, 45229-3039, USA.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about changes in the imaging appearances of the bowel
and mesentery over time in either pediatric or adult patients with newly
diagnosed small bowel Crohn disease treated with anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha
(anti-TNF-α) therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To define how bowel ultrasound findings change over time and correlate
with laboratory inflammatory markers in children who have been newly diagnosed
with pediatric small bowel Crohn disease and treated with infliximab.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We included 28 pediatric patients treated with infliximab 
for newly diagnosed ileal Crohn disease who underwent bowel sonography prior to
medical therapy and at approximately 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months
after treatment initiation; these patients also had laboratory testing at
baseline, 1 month and 6 months. We used linear mixed models to compare mean
results between visits and evaluate whether ultrasound measurements changed over 
time. We used Spearman rank correlation to assess bivariate relationships.
RESULTS: Mean subject age was 15.3±2.2 years; 11 subjects were girls (39%). We
observed decreases in mean length of disease involvement (12.0±5.4 vs.
9.1±5.3 cm, P=0.02), maximum bowel wall thickness (5.6±1.8 vs. 4.7±1.7 mm,
P=0.02), bowel wall color Doppler signal (1.7±0.9 vs. 1.2±0.8, P=0.002) and
mesenteric color Doppler signal (1.1±0.9 vs. 0.6±0.6, P=0.005) at approximately
2 weeks following the initiation of infliximab compared to baseline. All
laboratory inflammatory markers decreased at 1 month (P-values<0.0001). There was
strong correlation between bowel wall color Doppler signal and fecal calprotectin
(ρ=0.710; P<0.0001). Linear mixed models confirmed that maximum bowel wall
thickness (P=0.04), length of disease involvement (P=0.0002) and bowel wall color
Doppler signal (P<0.0001) change over time in response to infliximab, when
adjusted for age, sex, azathioprine therapy, scanning radiologist and baseline
short pediatric Crohn's disease activity index score.
CONCLUSION: The ultrasound appearance of the bowel changes as early as 2 weeks
after the initiation of infliximab therapy. There is strong correlation between
bowel wall color Doppler signal and fecal calprotectin.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-017-3848-3 
PMID: 28421251 


48. Mediators Inflamm. 2017;2017:4810258. doi: 10.1155/2017/4810258. Epub 2017 Mar
21.

Recent Advances: The Imbalance of Cytokines in the Pathogenesis of Inflammatory
Bowel Disease.

Guan Q(1), Zhang J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Taishan Medical University, Tai'an, Shandong
Province 271016, China.

Cytokines play an important role in the immunopathogenesis of inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, where they drive
and regulate multiple aspects of intestinal inflammation. The imbalance between
proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines that occurs in IBD results in
disease progression and tissue damage and limits the resolution of inflammation. 
Targeting cytokines have been novel strategies in the treatment of IBD. Recent
studies show the beneficial effects of anticytokine treatments to IBD patients,
and multiple novel cytokines are found to be involved in the pathogenesis of IBD.
In this review, we will discuss the recent advances of novel biologics in clinics
and clinical trials, and novel proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines
found in IBD with focusing on IL-12 family and IL-1 family members as well as
their relevance to the potential therapy of IBD.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/4810258 
PMCID: PMC5379128
PMID: 28420941 


49. Curr Med Res Opin. 2017 Apr 19:1-8. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1313213. [Epub
ahead of print]

Enteric-coated budesonide for the induction and maintenance of remission of
Crohn's disease in children.

Cohen SA(1), Aloi M(2), Arumugam R(3), Baker R(4), Bax K(5), Kierkuś J(6),
Koletzko S(7), Lionetti P(8), Persson T(9), Eklund S(9).

Author information: 
(1)a Children's Center for Digestive Healthcare , Atlanta , GA , USA. (2)b
Sapienza University of Rome , Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology, and
Liver Unit , Rome , Italy. (3)c Minnesota Gastroenterology PA , Saint Paul , MN ,
USA. (4)d University Pediatric Associates Inc., Digestive Diseases and Nutrition 
Center , Buffalo, NY , USA. (5)e Children's Hospital of Western Ontario, Schulich
School of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics , Western University , London , ON ,
Canada. (6)f Department of Gastroenterology , Hepatology, and Feeding Disorders, 
Instytut Pomnik Centrum Zdrowia Dziecka , Warsaw , Poland. (7)g Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology , Dr. von Hauner Children's Hospital, Ludwig
Maximilians University , Munich , Germany. (8)h Department of Gastroenterology
and Nutrition , Meyer Children's Hospital , Florence , Italy. (9)i AstraZeneca
Gothenburg , Mölndal , Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: These studies evaluated the safety and efficacy of enteric-coated
budesonide for the induction and maintenance of remission of mild-to-moderate
Crohn's disease (CD) in children.
METHODS: The consecutive, multicenter, open-label, non-comparative studies
enrolled patients aged 6-17 years. In the induction study, patients with active
CD of the ileum and/or ascending colon received budesonide 9 mg or 6 mg once
daily for 8 weeks; in the maintenance study, patients in remission received
budesonide 6 mg once daily for 12 weeks. The primary objective was assessment of 
safety, including glucocorticosteroid-related side effects and serum cortisol
levels. Efficacy was assessed using the Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
(PCDAI), and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using the IMPACT-III
questionnaire.
RESULTS: In the induction study (n = 108), most adverse events were related to
CD, commonly abdominal pain; possible glucocorticosteroid-related effects
included acne and increased appetite but without significant weight gain.
Subnormal morning cortisol levels were observed in 32 of 103 patients after 8
weeks. Budesonide reduced disease activity from baseline (mean ± standard
deviation, 9.1 ± 8.5 vs. 19.1 ± 10.1, p < .001) with 58.1% of patients reaching
remission (PCDAI <10); HRQoL improved (p < .001). In the maintenance study
(n = 50), mean disease activity worsened (p = .047) with HRQoL unchanged
(p = .33).
CONCLUSIONS: Budesonide treatment was generally well tolerated, although the
potential for adrenal suppression was noted. Budesonide was effective for
induction of remission in children with mild-to-moderate CD but not for
maintaining remission (ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT01444092, NCT01453946).

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1313213 
PMID: 28420280 


50. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Apr 13. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx054. [Epub ahead of
print]

Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Refractory Crohn's
Disease: Efficacy in a Single-Centre Cohort.

López-García A(1), Rovira M(2), Jauregui-Amezaga A(1), Marín P(3), Barastegui
R(1), Salas A(4), Ribas V(4), Feu F(1), Elizalde JI(1), Fernández-Avilés F(2),
Martínez C(2), Gutiérrez G(2), Rosiñol L(2), Carreras E(2), Urbano A(2), Lozano
M(3), Cid J(3), Suárez-Lledó M(2), Masamunt MC(1), Comas D(1), Giner A(1),
Gallego M(1), Alfaro I(1), Ordás I(1), Panés J(1), Ricart E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERehd
Barcelona, Spain. (2)Hematology Department-HSCT Unit. Hospital Clínic de
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Hemotherapy and Hemostasis Department, Hospital
Clínic de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (4)EURECAT, Centre Tecnològic de
Catalunya.

Background: Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is considered a
therapeutic option for patients with severe Crohn's disease (CD) unresponsive to 
currently available therapies.
Methods: Autologous HSCT was considered for CD patients with active disease,
unresponsive or intolerant to approved medications and unsuitable for surgery.
After HSCT, patients were closely followed-up every 6 weeks during the first 2
years and every 6 months thereafter up to 5 years. Colonoscopy and/or magnetic
resonance were performed at months 6, 12, 24, and 48 after HSCT.
Results: From December 1st 2007 to December 31st 2015, 37 CD patients were
assessed for HSCT. Thirty-five patients (13 within the ASTIC trial) underwent
mobilization. Six patients did not complete the transplant for various reasons
and 29 patients were finally transplanted. Patients were followed-up during a
median of 12 months (6-60). At 6 months, 70% of patients achieved drug-free
clinical remission (CDAI<150). The proportion of patients in drug-free remission 
(CDAI <150, SES-CD< 7) was 61% at one year, 52% at 2 years, 47% at 3 years, 39%
at 4 years, and 15% at 5 years. Patients who relapsed were retreated and 80%
regained clinical remission. Six out of twenty-nine (21%) required surgery. One
patient died due to systemic cytomegalovirus infection 2 months after transplant.
Conclusions: HSCT is a salvage therapy for patients with extensive and refractory
CD. Although relapse occurs in a majority of patients within 5 years after
transplant, drug responsiveness is regained and clinical remission achieved in
80% of cases.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx054 
PMID: 28419282 


51. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2017.97. [Epub ahead of print]

Trends in Epidemiology of Pediatric Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Canada:
Distributed Network Analysis of Multiple Population-Based Provincial Health
Administrative Databases.

Benchimol EI(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Bernstein CN(5,)(6), Bitton A(7), Carroll MW(8),
Singh H(5,)(6), Otley AR(9), Vutcovici M(7), El-Matary W(10), Nguyen GC(4,)(11), 
Griffiths AM(12), Mack DR(1,)(2), Jacobson K(13), Mojaverian N(4), Tanyingoh
D(14), Cui Y(15), Nugent ZJ(5), Coulombe J(7), Targownik LE(5,)(6), Jones JL(15),
Leddin D(15), Murthy SK(4,)(14), Kaplan GG(16).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario IBD
Centre, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Children's
Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, Canada. (2)Department of Pediatrics,
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. (3)School of Epidemiology, Public Health
and Preventive Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. (4)Institute for
Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Canada. (5)University of Manitoba IBD
Clinical and Research Centre, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(7)McGill University Health Centre, Division of Gastroenterology, Montreal,
Canada. (8)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Department of
Pediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (9)Department of
Pediatrics, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada. (10)Department of Pediatrics, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada. (11)Mount Sinai Hospital Centre for
Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. (12)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, The 
Hospital for Sick Children, Department of Paediatrics, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. (13)Department of Pediatrics, Child and Family Research
Institute, University of British Columbia, British Columbia, Canada.
(14)Departments of Medicine and Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (15)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University,
Halifax, Canada. (16)Department of Medicine, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: The incidence of pediatric-onset inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is 
increasing worldwide. We used population-based health administrative data to
determine national Canadian IBD incidence, prevalence, and trends over time of
childhood-onset IBD.
METHODS: We identified children <16 years (y) diagnosed with IBD 1999-2010 from
health administrative data in five provinces (Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia,
Ontario, Quebec), comprising 79.2% of the Canadian population. Standardized
incidence and prevalence were calculated per 100,000 children. Annual percentage 
change (APC) in incidence and prevalence were determined using Poisson regression
analysis. Provincial estimates were meta-analyzed using random-effects models to 
produce national estimates.
RESULTS: 5,214 incident cases were diagnosed during the study period (3,462
Crohn's disease, 1,382 ulcerative colitis, 279 type unclassifiable). The
incidence in Canada was 9.68 (95% CI 9.11 to 10.25) per 100,000 children.
Incidence was similar amongst most provinces, but higher in Nova Scotia. APC in
incidence did not significantly change over the study period in the overall
cohort (+2.06%, 95% CI -0.64% to +4.76%). However, incidence significantly
increased in children aged 0-5y (+7.19%, 95% +2.82% to +11.56%). Prevalence at
the end of the study period in Canada was 38.25 (95% CI 35.78 to 40.73) per
100,000 children. Prevalence increased significantly over time, APC +4.56% (95%
CI +3.71% to +5.42%).
CONCLUSIONS: Canada has amongst the highest incidence of childhood-onset IBD in
the world. Prevalence significantly increased over time. Incidence was not
statistically changed with the exception of a rapid increase in incidence in the 
youngest group of children.Am J Gastroenterol advance online publication, 18
April 2017; doi:10.1038/ajg.2017.97.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2017.97 
PMID: 28417994 


52. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 18. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2017.120. [Epub ahead of print]

Corrigendum: Responsiveness of Endoscopic Indices of Disease Activity for Crohn's
Disease.

Khanna R, Zou G, Stitt L, Feagan BG, Sandborn WJ, Rutgeerts P, McDonald JWD,
Dubcenco E, Fogel R, Panaccione R, Jairath V, Nelson S, Shackelton LM, Huang B,
Zhou Q, Robinson AM, Levesque BG, D'Haens G.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2017.120 
PMID: 28417993 


53. Semin Nucl Med. 2017 May;47(3):286-303. doi: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2016.12.005.
Epub 2017 Feb 9.

Nuclear Medicine Imaging in Pediatric Infection or Chronic Inflammatory Diseases.

Signore A(1), Glaudemans AWJM(2), Gheysens O(3), Lauri C(4), Catalano OA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Nuclear Medicine Unit, Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and
Translational Medicine, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Rome, Italy. Electronic
address: alberto.signore@uniroma1.it. (2)Department of Nuclear Medicine and
Molecular Imaging, University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular
imaging, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (4)Nuclear Medicine Unit, 
Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and Translational Medicine, "Sapienza"
University of Rome, Rome, Italy. (5)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

In this review article, we focus on the most recent applications of nuclear
medicine techniques (mainly (99m)Tc/(111)In white blood cells (WBC) scan,
[(18)F]-FDG-PET/CT, [(18)F]-FDG-PET/MRI, and (99m)Tc-IL-2 scintigraphy) in the
study of children affected by peripheral bone osteomyelitis, fungal infections,
inflammatory bowel diseases, and type 1 diabetes, owing to recent important
published evidences of their role in the management of these diseases. For
osteomyelitis in children, both bone scintigraphy and [(18)F]-FDG-PET have a
major advantage of assessing the whole body in one imaging session to confirm or 
exclude multifocal involvement, whereas WBC scan has a limited role. In children 
with fungal infections, [(18)F]-FDG-PET can help in defining the best location
for biopsy and can help in evaluating the extent of the infection and organs
involved (also sites that were not yet clinically apparent), although its main
role is for therapy monitoring. In inflammatory bowel diseases, and Crohn disease
in particular, WBC scan has been successfully used for many years, but it is now 
used only in case of doubtful magnetic resonance (MR) or when MR cannot be
performed and endoscopy is inconclusive. By contrast, there is an accumulating
evidence of the role of [(18)F]-FDG-PET in management of children with Crohn
disease, and PET/MR could be a versatile and innovative hybrid imaging technique 
that combines the metabolic information of PET with the high soft tissue
resolution of MR, particularly for distinguishing fibrotic from active
strictures. Finally, there are several new radiopharmaceuticals that specifically
target inflammatory cells involved in the pathogenesis of insulitis aiming at
developing new specific immunotherapies and to select children candidates to
these treatments for improving their quality of life.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2016.12.005 
PMID: 28417857 


54. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(10):1374-1375. doi: 10.1111/apt.14053.

Editorial: accumulating data about ustekinumab in refractory Crohn's disease in
real world experience.

Khorrami S(1), Gisbert JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario Son Espases and
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Palma (IdISPa), Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa,
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP) and Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd),
Madrid, Spain.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14053 
PMID: 28417496 


55. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 17. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4574-2. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha Inhibitors for Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Patients with Concurrent Heart Failure.

Jiang Y(1), Lin O(1), Sinha SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 300 Pasteur Dr., Alway Building M211, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 300 Pasteur Dr., Alway Building M211, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.
sidsinha@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND: Prescribing information for tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα)
inhibitors, a mainstay of treatment for moderate to severe inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD), instructs cautious use in those with heart failure (HF). However, 
the limited data behind these warnings are inconclusive and should be weighed
against mounting evidence demonstrating worse cardiac outcomes in active IBD.
AIMS: To assess whether TNFα inhibitor use is reduced in patients with IBD and HF
by analyzing physician practice and prescription patterns.
METHODS: Using a Stanford University database, we queried TNFα inhibitor
prescriptions in 8905 patients with an ICD-9 diagnosis of Crohn's disease or
ulcerative colitis. Detailed chart review analysis was done for patients with a
concurrent diagnosis of HF who were prescribed anti-TNFα agents. In addition, we 
collected survey data from 25 gastroenterologists on their usage of these drugs
for patients with IBD and HF.
RESULTS: TNFα inhibitors were prescribed to 10/455 (2.2%) IBD patients with HF
compared to 1265/8450 (15.0%) in IBD patients without HF (p < 0.0001). Of those
ten with HF prescribed TNFα inhibitors, only one had it discontinued because of
HF exacerbation while on drug. Survey data indicated few (5/25) providers do not 
actively avoid TNFα inhibitors for those with HF.
CONCLUSIONS: IBD patients with HF are prescribed significantly less TNFα
inhibitors than those without HF. The majority of providers are either uncertain 
about or actively avoid use of anti-TNFα medications for those with HF. The risks
and benefits of anti-TNFα use in HF patients must be investigated further.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4574-2 
PMID: 28417241 


56. AMB Express. 2017 Dec;7(1):82. doi: 10.1186/s13568-017-0383-4. Epub 2017 Apr 17.

Lachnospiraceae shift in the microbial community of mice faecal sample effects on
water immersion restraint stress.

Li S(1,)(2), Wang Z(1), Yang Y(1), Yang S(1), Yao C(1), Liu K(1), Cui S(1), Zou
Q(1), Sun H(3), Guo G(4).

Author information: 
(1)National Engineering Research Center of Immunological Products, Department of 
Microbiology and Biochemical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Third Military
Medical University of PLA, 30 Gaotanyan Street, Shapingba District, Chongqing,
400038, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of Epidemic Prevention,
Hospital of Troop 66325, Chinese PLA, Beijing, 102202, People's Republic of
China. (3)National Engineering Research Center of Immunological Products,
Department of Microbiology and Biochemical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Third
Military Medical University of PLA, 30 Gaotanyan Street, Shapingba District,
Chongqing, 400038, People's Republic of China. sunhongwu2001@163.com. (4)National
Engineering Research Center of Immunological Products, Department of Microbiology
and Biochemical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Third Military Medical University 
of PLA, 30 Gaotanyan Street, Shapingba District, Chongqing, 400038, People's
Republic of China. guogang7001@163.com.

Stress, including both psychological and physical stimulation, can cause changes 
in the microbiota and mucosal function of the gastrointestinal system. There are 
few research studies available about the faecal microbiota changes after stress, 
such as water immersion restraint stress (WIRS). Therefore, in this study, we
focused on analysing the composition changes of faecal microbiota in WIRS mice.
The WIRS model, in which Blab/c mice were immersed in 21 ± 2 °C water for 4 h
each day for 14 days, was established. Behavioural changes, the serum levels of
corticosterone, IFN-γ and IL-17 and gastric mucosal injury were also assessed.
Ten faecal microbiota samples were detected by Illumina Miseq sequencing of the
16S rRNA genes from 367205 characterised sequences. Finally, we find significant 
differences in the faecal microbiota composition between the control and the WIRS
groups. There was an obvious increase in Lachnospiraceae in the WIRS mice
(p = 0.0286, p < 0.05), which is associated with human diseases, such as
ulcerative colitis, Crohn's and celiac disease. Our research indicates that
stress changes in the faecal microbiota. These results suggest that observing
shifts of the intestinal microbiota is a promising method to explore the
mechanism of the stress associated with gastrointestinal diseases and to provide 
us with a better understanding of the relationship between the microbiota and
disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-017-0383-4 
PMID: 28417435 


57. Pediatr Radiol. 2017 Apr 17. doi: 10.1007/s00247-017-3833-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Colonic inflammation in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease: detection with
magnetic resonance enterography.

Campari A(1,)(2), Napolitano M(3), Zuin G(4), Maestri L(5), Di Leo G(6),
Sardanelli F(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Radiology Department, E. Bassini Hospital - ASST Nord Milano, via Gorki, 50,
20092, Cinisello Balsamo, Milan, Italy. alessandro.campari@unimi.it. (2)Pediatric
Radiology Department, V. Buzzi Children's Hospital - ASST Fatebenefratelli-Sacco,
via Castelvetro 32, 20154, Milan, Italy. alessandro.campari@unimi.it.
(3)Pediatric Radiology Department, V. Buzzi Children's Hospital - ASST
Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, via Castelvetro 32, 20154, Milan, Italy. (4)Pediatric
Department, V. Buzzi Children's Hospital - ASST Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, via
Castelvetro 32, 20154, Milan, Italy. (5)Pediatric Surgery Department, V. Buzzi
Children's Hospital - ASST Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, via Castelvetro 32, 20154,
Milan, Italy. (6)Radiology Unit, IRCCS Policlinico San Donato, Via Morandi 30,
20097, San Donato Milanese, Milan, Italy. (7)Department of Biomedical Sciences
for Health, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via Morandi 30, 20097, San Donato
Milanese, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Colonic involvement in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease is
common. Magnetic resonance (MR) enterography is considered the best imaging
modality for pediatric inflammatory bowel disease evaluation. It is unclear
whether the lack of a dedicated large bowel preparation prevents a reliable
colonic assessment.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the diagnostic performance of standard MR enterography in
detecting and grading colonic inflammatory activity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated children who underwent both
MR enterography and ileocolonoscopy with biopsies <4 weeks apart. Two
radiologists independently reviewed MR examinations and quantified inflammation
in each of the five colonic segments using a standardized MR score system.
Findings were compared with histological examination of the corresponding
segment. Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, Jonckheere-Terpstra and Bland-Altman
statistics were used.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-five segments from 37 examinations were included. MR
enterography diagnostic performance for inflammation was as follows: sensitivity 
94% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 90-97%), specificity: 64% (95% CI: 57-71%). A 
significant positive correlation was found between MR score and inflammatory
activity histologically graded (P<0.001, Jonckheere-Terpstra test). The
interobserver agreement was good (mean difference between MR enterography scores 
was -0.03; limits of agreement -2.8 to 2.7).
CONCLUSION: Standard MR enterography is sensitive for the detection of actively
inflamed colonic segments. MR enterography might provide useful information for
guiding biopsies and its role as an alternative to ileocolonoscopy in monitoring 
colonic disease activity in children should be further investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-017-3833-x 
PMID: 28417181 


58. Dig Liver Dis. 2017 Mar 30. pii: S1590-8658(17)30792-2. doi:
10.1016/j.dld.2017.03.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy of tumour necrosis factor antagonists in stricturing Crohn's disease: A 
tertiary center real-life experience.

Allocca M(1), Bonifacio C(2), Fiorino G(1), Spinelli A(3), Furfaro F(1),
Balzarini L(2), Bonovas S(1), Danese S(4).

Author information: 
(1)IBD Center, Gastroenterology, IRCCS Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
(2)Radiology, IRCCS Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan, Italy. (3)Colon and Rectal
Surgery, IRCCS Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan, Italy. (4)IBD Center, Gastroenterology,
IRCCS Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: sdanese@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Stenosis is the most common complication of Crohn's disease (CD).
Long-term outcome of patients receiving tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists 
for such disease complication is poorly understood.
METHODS: 51 CD patients (from July 2006 to November 2015) who had a diagnosis of 
small bowel or colonic stenosis, diagnosed by colonoscopy and/or MRI
enterography, and were treated with TNF antagonists (adalimumab or infliximab)
were enrolled. The primary outcome was to assess the rate of success of TNF
antagonists on avoiding abdominal surgery for stricturing CD patients.
RESULTS: 20 patients (39.2%) underwent surgery during the follow-up period. The
overall incidence of abdominal surgery was 1.8 per 100 person-months at risk,
while the median time to surgery was 37.9 months. The univariable and
multivariable Cox's proportional hazards analysis of baseline parameters
indicated that disease location (colonic vs ileal, HR: 28.2, 95% CI: 2.45-324,
p=0.007; ileocolonic vs ileal, HR: 3.38, 95% CI: 1.09-10.5, p=0.035), prestenotic
dilatation (per 1-mm increase, HR: 1.08, 95% CI: 1.01-1.15, p=0.022) and the
existence of non-perianal fistula (HR: 9.77, 95% CI: 2.99-31.9, p<0.001) are
independent risk factors for abdominal surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: In stricturing CD, anti-TNFs are effective in up to about two-thirds
of the patients.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2017.03.012 
PMID: 28416240 


59. J La State Med Soc. 2017 Mar-Apr;169(2):52. Epub 2017 Apr 15.

A Clot (Possibly); Due to Loss of TNF-α Supression.

Broussard J(1), Berlinger M(1), Lauret D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, LSU Health in Baton Rouge, LA.

INTRODUCTION: Inflammation and venous thrombosis enjoy a close Relationship. We
present a patient who had multiple DVTs following the discontinuation of anti-
TNF-α therapy.
CASE: A 34 year old African American female with a history of multiple DVT's,
miscarriages, and reported Crohn's disease presented with shortness of breath. In
the Emergency Department, CTA showed bilateral pulmonary emboli. The patient had 
been off adalimumab for one year and reported abdominal pain with 6-7 non-bloody 
bowel movements daily. She had been prescribed lovenox for her unprovoked DVTs
yet reported missing several doses prior to admission. Following admission, she
developed severe abdominal pain prompting an emergent CT angiogram and she then
developed a pulseless painful left lower extremity. CT revealed a partially
occlusive thrombus in the infra-renal abdominal aorta, proximal left common iliac
artery, and right renal artery with subsequent right renal infarction. Following 
emergent vascular surgery to restore blood flow to the left lower extremity, the 
patient received four days of plasma exchange and high dose steroids for
potential catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome. Serology for APLA was negative.
The patient was discharged with lifelong anticoagulation.
DISCUSSION: The endothelial surface is a complex organ that works in concert with
the surrounding environment. Inflammation and thrombus formation is closely
associated. TNF-α can increase the expression of adhesion molecules,
specifically, tissue factor, on the surface endothelial cells and promote
thrombosis. Suppression of TNF-α expression by low molecular weight heparin has
been shown to inhibit the inflammatory cascade and reduce thrombus formation in
animal models. Clinical data is less clear. Interruption of TNF blockers has been
shown to increase the risk of DVT in patients with rheumatoid arthritis
undergoing orthopedic surgery. For patients with Bechet's syndrome, anti-TNF
agents appear help treat patients with pulmonary artery thrombosis. Further
review of anti-TNF-α therapy in our general medicine patient population may
disclose additional risks associated with discontinuation of these medications.


PMID: 28414674 


60. Biomed Rep. 2017 Apr;6(4):401-410. doi: 10.3892/br.2017.860. Epub 2017 Feb 17.

Serologic testing of a panel of five antibodies in inflammatory bowel diseases:
Diagnostic value and correlation with disease phenotype.

Wang ZZ(1), Shi K(2), Peng J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan 410008, P.R. China. (2)Laboratory of the Department of
Gerontology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan 410008, 
P.R. China.

The aim of the present study was to evaluate the diagnostic value of five
serological antibodies, perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (pANCA), 
anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies [ASCA; ASCA-immunoglobulin (IgG)and
ASCA-IgA], Escherichia coli outer membrane porin C antibody (anti-OmpC) and CBir1
flagellin antibody for detection in inflammatory bowel diseases. Whether the
antibody status correlated with the disease phenotype was also evaluated. Sera
from 71 patients with Crohn's disease (CD), 41 patients with ulcerative colitis
(UC), 78 patients with other gastrointestinal diseases and 31 healthy control
subjects were investigated. Clinical data were gathered at the time of serum
sampling and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine titers of
the above mentioned five antibodies. The pANCA test exhibited a sensitivity of
53.7% for UC and the ASCA test had a sensitivity of 66.2% for CD. The prevalence 
of anti-OmpC was significantly higher in CD than in intestinal tuberculosis (TB),
indicating that anti-OmpC may be a serologic marker distinguishing CD from TB.
The pANCA(+)/ASCA- exhibited the best specificity for differentiating between CD 
and UC. In UC, the presence of pANCA was greater in the patients with moderate to
severe activity than in those with mild activity. ASCA was more positive in ileal
CD. Furthermore, positive ASCA-IgG or anti-OmpC implied that complicated CD and
pANCA was associated with colonic CD. Seropositivity of anti-CBir1 was lowest in 
colonic CD.

DOI: 10.3892/br.2017.860 
PMCID: PMC5374894
PMID: 28413638 


61. Oncotarget. 2017 Apr 11;8(15):24177-24186. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15489.

Vitamin D increases programmed death receptor-1 expression in Crohn's disease.

Bendix M(1), Greisen S(2,)(3), Dige A(1), Hvas CL(1), Bak N(1), Jørgensen SP(1), 
Dahlerup JF(1), Deleuran B(2,)(3), Agnholt J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital,
Aarhus, Denmark. (2)Department of Immunology, Institute of Biomedicine, Aarhus
University, Aarhus, Denmark. (3)Department of Rheumatology, Aarhus University
Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D modulates inflammation in Crohn's disease (CD). Programmed 
death (PD)-1 receptor contributes to the maintenance of immune tolerance. Vitamin
D might modulate PD-1 signalling in CD.
AIM: To investigate PD-1 expression on T cell subsets in CD patients treated with
vitamin D or placebo.
METHODS: We included 40 CD patients who received 1200 IU vitamin D3 for 26 weeks 
or placebo and eight healthy controls. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)
and plasma were isolated at baseline and week 26. The expressions of PD-1, PD-L1,
and surface activation markers were analysed by flow cytometry. Soluble PD-1
plasma levels were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: PD-1 expression upon T cell stimulation was increased in CD4+CD25+int T 
cells in vitamin D treated CD patients from 19% (range 10 - 39%) to 29% (11 -
79%)(p = 0.03) compared with placebo-treated patients. Vitamin D treatment, but
not placebo, decreased the expression of the T cell activation marker CD69 from
42% (31 - 62%) to 33% (19 - 54%)(p = 0.01). Soluble PD-1 levels were not
influenced by vitamin D treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Vitamin D treatment increases CD4+CD25+int T cells ability to
up-regulate PD-1 in response to activation and reduces the CD69 expression in CD 
patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.15489 
PMID: 28412753 


62. J Rheumatol. 2017 Apr 15. pii: jrheum.161518. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.161518. [Epub
ahead of print]

Case-control Study on Dactylitis, Enthesitis, and Anterior Uveitis in
Spondyloarthritis Associated with Inflammatory Bowel Diseases: Role of Coexistent
Psoriasis.

Cantini F(1), Niccoli L(1), Nannini C(1), Cassarà E(1), Kaloudi O(1), Rizzello
F(1), Gionchetti P(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Rheumatology Division, Hospital of Prato; Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna,
Italy. F. Cantini, MD, PhD, Consultant in Rheumatology, Director, Rheumatology
Division, Hospital of Prato; L. Niccoli, MD, PhD, Consultant in Rheumatology,
Rheumatology Division, Hospital of Prato; C. Nannini, MD, PhD, Consultant in
Rheumatology, Rheumatology Division, Hospital of Prato; E. Cassarà, MD, PhD,
Consultant in Rheumatology, Rheumatology Division, Hospital of Prato; O. Kaloudi,
MD, PhD, Consultant in Rheumatology, Rheumatology Division, Hospital of Prato; F.
Rizzello, MD, PhD, Consultant in Gastroenterology, Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, University of Bologna; P.
Gionchetti, MD, PhD, Consultant in Gastroenterology, Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, University of Bologna. Address
correspondence to Dr. F. Cantini, Rheumatology Department, Azienda USL Toscana
Centro, Hospital of Prato, Piazza Ospedale 5, 59100 Prato, Italy. E-mail:
fbrzcantini@gmail.com. Accepted for publication March 27, 2017.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the frequency of dactylitis, enthesitis, and anterior
uveitis (AU) in spondyloarthritis (SpA) associated with inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD-SpA) compared with other SpA, and to assess the role of associated
psoriasis in the occurrence of dactylitis and enthesitis.
METHODS: In a 12-month case-control study, the frequency of dactylitis and
enthesitis in 29 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and 59 with Crohn disease 
(CD) who satisfied the Spondyloarthritis international Society criteria for axial
or peripheral SpA was compared with 176 controls, including 97 (55.1%) with
psoriatic arthritis (PsA), 47 (26.7%) with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and 32
(18.2%) with nonradiographic axial SpA (nr-axSpA). The occurrence of these
features in IBD-SpA with and without psoriasis was also evaluated.
RESULTS: Axial, peripheral, or mixed involvement was observed in 46 (52%), 29
(33%), and 13 (15%) patients, respectively; and 14/88 (16%) had psoriasis.
Dactylitis was recorded in 4/88 patients (4.5%) with IBD-SpA and in 30 controls
(17.4%; p = 0.008), enthesitis in 16 cases (18.1%) and in 78/176 controls (44.3%;
p < 0.001), and AU in 3 patients (3.4%) with IBD-SpA and in 26 controls (14.7%; p
= 0.01). No significant differences were found between patients with UC-SpA and
those with CD-SpA. Dactylitis and enthesitis were significantly more common in
patients with IBD-SpA who also had psoriasis compared to those without skin
disease (p = 0.009 and 0.003, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Dactylitis, enthesitis, and AU are significantly less frequent in
IBD-SpA compared with other types of SpA. Given the frequent association of
psoriasis and IBD, overlooking coexistent skin disease may lead to overestimating
the frequency of these features.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.161518 
PMID: 28412702 


63. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2017 Apr 12. pii: S0303-7207(17)30223-X. doi:
10.1016/j.mce.2017.04.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Vitamin D signaling in intestinal innate immunity and homeostasis.

Dimitrov V(1), White JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada;
Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic
address: john.white@mcgill.ca.

The lumen of the gut hosts a plethora of microorganisms that participate in food 
assimilation, inactivation of harmful particles and in vitamin synthesis. On the 
other hand, enteric flora, a number of food antigens, and toxins are capable of
triggering immune responses causing inflammation, which, when unresolved, may
lead to chronic conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It is
important, therefore, to contain the gut bacteria within the lumen, control
microbial load and composition, as well as ensure adequate innate and adaptive
immune responses to pathogenic threats. There is growing evidence that vitamin D 
signaling has impacts on all these aspects of intestinal physiology, contributing
to healthy enteric homeostasis. VD was first discovered as the curative agent for
nutritional rickets, and its classical actions are associated with calcium
absorption and bone health. However, vitamin D exhibits a number of
extra-skeletal effects, particularly in innate immunity. Notably, it stimulates
production of pattern recognition receptors, anti-microbial peptides, and
cytokines, which are at the forefront of innate immune responses. They play a
role in sensing the microbiota, in preventing excessive bacterial overgrowth, and
complement the actions of vitamin D signaling in enhancing intestinal barrier
function. Vitamin D also favours tolerogenic rather than inflammogenic T cell
differentiation and function. Compromised innate immune function and overactive
adaptive immunity, as well as defective intestinal barrier function, have been
associated with IBD. Importantly, observational and intervention studies support 
a beneficial role of vitamin D supplementation in patients with Crohn's disease, 
a form of IBD. This review summarizes the effects of vitamin D signaling on
barrier integrity and innate and adaptive immunity in the gut, as well as on
microbial load and composition. Collectively, studies to date reveal that vitamin
D signaling has widespread effects on gut homeostasis, and provide a mechanistic 
basis for potential therapeutic benefit of vitamin D supplementation in IBD.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2017.04.010 
PMID: 28412519 


64. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 12. pii: S2210-7401(17)30082-7. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2017.03.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Red cell distribution width (RDW) is associated with cardiovascular disease risk 
in Crohn's disease.

Al Taii H(1), Yaqoob Z(1), Al-Kindi SG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of medicine, Cleveland clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA. (2)Harrington
heart and vascular institute, university hospitals Cleveland medical center,
Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: sadeer.alkindi@uhhospitals.org.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2017.03.003 
PMID: 28412191 


65. Lancet. 2017 Apr 12. pii: S0140-6736(17)30570-6. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30570-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Induction therapy with the selective interleukin-23 inhibitor risankizumab in
patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease: a randomised, double-blind,
placebo-controlled phase 2 study.

Feagan BG(1), Sandborn WJ(2), D'Haens G(3), Panés J(4), Kaser A(5), Ferrante
M(6), Louis E(7), Franchimont D(8), Dewit O(9), Seidler U(10), Kim KJ(11),
Neurath MF(12), Schreiber S(13), Scholl P(14), Pamulapati C(14), Lalovic B(14),
Visvanathan S(14), Padula SJ(15), Herichova I(16), Soaita A(14), Hall DB(14),
Böcher WO(15).

Author information: 
(1)Western University, Robarts Clinical Trials, London, ON, Canada. Electronic
address: brian.feagan@robartsinc.com. (2)IBD Center, University of California San
Diego and UC San Diego Health System, San Diego, CA, USA. (3)Academic Medical
Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands. (4)Hospital Clinic
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERehd, Barcelona, Spain. (5)University of Cambridge,
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. (6)University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium. (7)University Hospital CHU Liège, Liège, Belgium. (8)Erasme University
Hospital, Brussels, Belgium. (9)Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels,
Belgium. (10)Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. (11)Asan Medical Center,
Seoul, South Korea. (12)University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(13)Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Kiel, Germany. (14)Boehringer Ingelheim 
Pharmaceuticals, Ridgefield, CT, USA. (15)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH,
Ingelheim, Germany. (16)Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: The interleukin-23 pathway is implicated genetically and biologically
in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. We aimed to assess the efficacy and
safety of risankizumab (BI 655066, Boehringer Ingelheim, Ingelheim, Germany), a
humanised monoclonal antibody targeting the p19 subunit of interleukin-23, in
patients with moderately-to-severely active Crohn's disease.
METHODS: In this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 study, we
enrolled patients at 36 referral sites in North America, Europe, and southeast
Asia. Eligible patients were aged 18-75 years, with a diagnosis of Crohn's
disease for at least 3 months, assessed as moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease at 
screening, defined as a Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) of 220-450, with
mucosal ulcers in the ileum or colon, or both, and a Crohn's Disease Endoscopic
Index of Severity (CDEIS) of at least 7 (≥4 for patients with isolated ileitis)
on ileocolonoscopy scored by a masked central reader. Patients were randomised
1:1:1 using an interactive response system to a double-blind investigational
product, and stratified by previous exposure to TNF antagonists (yes vs no).
Patients received intravenous 200 mg risankizumab, 600 mg risankizumab, or
placebo, at weeks 0, 4, and 8. The primary outcome was clinical remission (CDAI
<150) at week 12 (intention-to-treat population). Safety was assessed in patients
who received at least one dose of study drug. This study is registered with
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02031276.
FINDINGS: Between March, 2014, and September, 2015, 213 patients were screened,
and 121 patients randomised. At baseline, 113 patients (93%) had been previously 
treated with at least one tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist (which had
failed in 96 [79%]). At week 12, 25 (31%) of 82 risankizumab patients (pooled 41 
patients in 200 mg and 41 patients in 600 mg arms) had clinical remission versus 
six (15%) of 39 placebo patients (difference vs placebo 15·0%, 95% CI 0·1 to
30·1; p=0·0489). Ten (24%) of 41 patients who received 200 mg risankizumab had
clinical remission (9·0%, -8·3 to 26·2; p=0·31) and 15 (37%) of 41 who received
the 600 mg dose (20·9%, 2·6 to 39·2; p=0·0252). 95 (79%) patients had adverse
events (32 in the placebo group, 32 randomised to 200 mg risankizumab, 31
randomised to 600 mg risankizumab); 18 had severe adverse events (nine, six,
three); 12 discontinued (six, five, one); 24 had serious adverse events (12,
nine, three). The most common adverse event was nausea and most common serious
adverse event was worsening of underlying Crohn's disease. No deaths occurred.
INTERPRETATION: In this short-term study, risankizumab was more effective than
placebo for inducing clinical remission in patients with active Crohn's disease. 
Therefore, selective blockade of interleukin-23 via inhibition of p19 might be a 
viable therapeutic approach in Crohn's disease.
FUNDING: Boehringer Ingelheim.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30570-6 
PMID: 28411872 


66. Lancet. 2017 Apr 12. pii: S0140-6736(17)30977-7. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30977-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting interleukin 23 for Crohn's disease: finding the right drug for the
right patient.

Hanauer SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
Electronic address: shanauer@northwestern.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30977-7 
PMID: 28411871 


67. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 14;12(4):e0175826. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175826.
eCollection 2017.

Assessing gastroenterologist and patient acceptance of biosimilars in ulcerative 
colitis and Crohn's disease across Germany.

Sullivan E(1), Piercy J(1), Waller J(1), Black CM(2), Kachroo S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Adelphi Real World, Manchester, United Kingdom. (2)Merck & Co., Inc.,
Kenilworth, NJ, United States of America.

OBJECTIVES: This study examined gastroenterologists' motivation for prescribing
biosimilars, assessed their treatment preferences in relation to prescribing
behaviour, and explored patient attitudes to biosimilars.
METHODS: Data were taken from the Adelphi Real World Biosimilars Programme, a
real-world, cross-sectional study undertaken in 2015-2016 with German
gastroenterologists and patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease.
Gastroenterologists provided data on their prescribing behaviour and attitudes
towards biosimilars, and invited the next eight eligible consecutive consulting
patients to complete a detailed questionnaire. For analysis, gastroenterologists 
were split into 'Investigative', 'Conservative', and 'Other' groups.
RESULTS: Overall, 25 gastroenterologists and 136 patients participated.
Biosimilars accounted for <15% of all biologic therapies and >80% of
gastroenterologists would prescribe a bio-originator rather than biosimilar as
1st line therapy if unrestricted. Patients showed some reluctance to accept
biosimilars, although of those receiving biosimilars, 79% were satisfied with the
current treatment of their condition, and 69% were satisfied with the control of 
symptoms. Although at least 35% of patients in each analysis group reported no
concerns when starting treatment with a bio-originator or biosimilar, 41% of
previously biologic-naïve patients prescribed a biosimilar indicated potential
side effects and potential long-term problems, and 24% not knowing enough about
the drug, as concerns.
CONCLUSION: Results demonstrate that there is reluctance from patients to accept 
biosimilars and the need to further educate patients who are unsure to allow them
to be involved in decision making, highlighting the importance of patient and
physician communication. There remains a need for further research into
non-clinical switching and the long term impact of prescribing biosimilars.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175826 
PMID: 28410403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr 13. doi: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000881.
[Epub ahead of print]

Small-bowel mucosal healing assessment by capsule endoscopy as a predictor of
long-term clinical remission in patients with Crohn's disease: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Niv Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Rabin Medical Center, Tel Aviv University,
Petah Tikva, Israel.

Capsule endoscopy (CE) may be used for the evaluation and follow-up of patients
with Crohn's disease. CE scores correspond to the degree of mucosal inflammation,
a major therapeutic target. The aim of this meta-analysis and systematic review
was to determine whether mucosal healing assessment by CE may serve as a
predictor of clinical remission in patients with Crohn's disease. To identify
observational or controlled English-language full-text studies assessing mucosal 
healing by CE in patients with Crohn's disease up to 30 September 2016, we
searched PubMed, Embase, Central, Medline, and Scopus using the key words
'mucosal healing' and 'capsule endoscopy'. A meta-analysis was carried out using 
'Comprehensive meta-analysis' software. Pooled odds ratios and 95% confidence
intervals were calculated. Five observational studies including 142 patients from
five countries fulfilled the inclusion criteria. No publication bias was found by
funnel plot. The mucosal healing CE score was found to be significantly
associated with improved outcome after a follow-up of 12 weeks to 24 months, with
an odds ratio of 11.06 (95% confidence interval: 3.74-32.73, P<0.001). The degree
of heterogeneity among the studies was small (Q=2.014, d.f.[Q]=3, P=0.569 and
I=0). Endoscopy scores may play a role in the long-term prognostic evaluation of 
patients with Crohn's disease. Our results may be accepted as proof of concept,
but larger studies are needed to corroborate these findings.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000881 
PMID: 28410352 


69. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 13. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001106. [Epub ahead of
print]

Development of a Novel Predictive Model for the Clinical Course of Crohn's
Disease: Results from the CONNECT Study.

Park Y(1), Cheon JH, Park YL, Ye BD, Kim YS, Han DS, Kim JS, Hong SN, Kim YH,
Jeon SR, Kim WH; IBD Study Group of the Korean Association for the Study of
Intestinal Diseases (KASID).

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of Gastroenterology, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; †Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea;
‡Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea; §Department of Internal Medicine, Hanyang University College
of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; ‖Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; ¶Department of
Internal Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of
Korea; and **Department of Internal Medicine, Soonchunhyang University School of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: A considerable number of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) develop
irreversible intestinal damage, although the early administration of
immunomodulatory or biological therapies might prevent this. The aims of our
study were to develop and validate a novel predictive model that can be used to
predict the risk of surgical intervention in Korean patients with CD.
METHODS: The prognostic model was derived from the multicenter longitudinal
CONNECT (CrOhn's disease cliNical NEtwork and CohorT) study cohort consisting of 
1338 patients with CD, who were split into training and validation sets. The
Korean Crohn's Disease Prediction (KCDP) model was developed with the training
set data using the Cox proportional hazards model and multivariate analysis, and 
was then validated using the validation set.
RESULTS: A total of 1271 patients with CD were analyzed. During the follow-up
period of 10,188 patient-years (median 7.1 yrs), 361 patients (28.4%) underwent
CD-related surgery. Age at diagnosis, jejunal involvement, initial disease
behavior, and perianal disease at diagnosis were associated with a poor prognosis
and included in the KCDP model, which showed a modest discrimination ability with
a Harrel's c-index of 0.731 at 5 years, and was well calibrated (Hosmer-Lemeshow 
χ = 8.230, P = 0.511).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first validated surgery risk prediction model for Korean
patients with CD; it provides accurate individualized estimates of the
probability of surgery using clinical parameters collected at diagnosis. This
model might guide appropriate patient selection for the early intensive treatment
of CD.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001106 
PMID: 28410345 


70. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 13. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001100. [Epub ahead of
print]

Effects of Transient and Persistent Anti-drug Antibodies to Certolizumab Pegol:
Longitudinal Data from a 7-Year Study in Crohn's Disease.

Sandborn WJ(1), Wolf DC, Kosutic G, Parker G, Schreiber S, Lee SD, Abraham B,
Afzali A, Arsenescu RI, Gutierrez A, Spearman M, Coarse J, Feagan BG.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Gastroenterology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California; †Atlanta Gastroenterology Associates, Atlanta, Georgia; ‡UCB Pharma, 
Raleigh, North Carolina; §GPmax Consulting Ltd., Slough, United Kingdom;
∥Department of Internal Medicine and Institute for Clinical Molecular Biology,
Christian-Albrechts University, Kiel, Germany; ¶Clinical Inflammatory Bowel
Disease Program, University of Washington Digestive Disease Center, Seattle,
Washington; **Department of Medicine, Houston Methodist, Houston, Texas;
††Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Program, University of Washington - Harborview
Medical Center, Seattle, Washington; ‡‡Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Center,
Morristown Medical Center, Morristown, New Jersey; §§Division of
Gastroenterology, Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, St.
Louis, Missouri; ∥∥UCB Pharma, Smyrna, Georgia; and ¶¶Robarts Research Institute,
London, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Anti-drug antibodies (ADAbs) may decrease the efficacy of biologics
and increase the risk of adverse events. A single positive test may not preclude 
further treatment because of variations in assays used, test timing, and patient 
variables. We evaluated the longitudinal patterns of immunogenicity during 7
years of antitumor necrosis factor-alpha drug certolizumab pegol (CZP) treatment 
for moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease.
METHODS: PRECiSE 3 patients (n = 595) received open-label CZP 400 mg every 4
weeks up to 7 years. CZP-ADAb expression, plasma CZP concentration,
Harvey-Bradshaw Index, C-reactive protein, and fecal calprotectin concentrations 
were measured multiple times. Longitudinal data, examined for CZP-ADAb positivity
and categorized as transient (with temporary/no effect on CZP concentration),
persistent, or negative, were correlated with clinical and biological variables.
RESULTS: Of the CZP-ADAb-positive patients, 40 (22.6%) had transient CZP-ADAbs
and 94 (77.4%) had persistent CZP-ADAbs. Demographic characteristics were similar
between groups. Median C-reactive protein and fecal calprotectin were higher (P <
0.05 at some visits) and plasma CZP concentrations were significantly lower (P < 
0.0001 at all visits) in the persistent CZP-ADAb-positive group relative to the
CZP-ADAb-negative group. Transient CZP-ADAb-positive and CZP-ADAb-negative
patients had similar plasma CZP, C-reactive protein, and fecal calprotectin
concentrations. Median Harvey-Bradshaw Index scores and rates of adverse events
were similar among groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis demonstrates that persistent CZP-ADAb has negative
effects on drug levels and efficacy, whereas transient expression may not. Serial
measurements may be needed to characterize ADAb positivity.
www.clinicaltrials.gov, Number NCT00160524.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001100 
PMID: 28410341 


71. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr 13. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001115. [Epub ahead of
print]

Inflammatory Bowel Disease is Similar in Patients with Older Onset and Younger
Onset.

Kochar B(1), Long MD, Galanko J, Raffals LE, Ananthakrishnan A, Sandler RS.

Author information: 
(1)*Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; †Division of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; and ‡Division of Gastroenterology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: As the American population is aging, the number of older people with 
inflammatory bowel disease is increasing. We used clinical data from the
Sinai-Helmsley Alliance for Research Excellence (SHARE), a prospective cohort, to
examine disease and treatment differences in older adults.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study assessing demographics and disease 
behavior by age at diagnosis with univariate, bivariate, and multivariate
analyses. "Older-onset" patients were diagnosed after age 60, "younger-onset"
patients were diagnosed before age 60 but are older than 60 years, and the
remainder were "young."
RESULTS: There were 91 older-onset, 389 younger-onset, and 3431 young patients
with Crohn's disease. Older-onset patients had more ileal (37%) and colonic (27%)
disease compared with younger-onset and young patients. There were no differences
in disease behavior, location, or surgeries between older-onset and young
patients with Crohn's disease within 5 years of diagnosis. Older-onset patients
with inflammatory disease had a higher odds of being in remission. Young patients
reported more anti-tumor necrosis factor and thiopurine use compared with
younger-onset and older-onset patients (P < 0.01). There were 98 older-onset, 218
younger-onset, and 1702 young patients with ulcerative colitis. There were no
differences in disease extent, activity index, or surgeries. Young patients with 
ulcerative colitis reported more anti-tumor necrosis factor use (26%) compared
with younger-onset patients (17%, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Disease behavior or location was not different between younger and
older adults with inflammatory bowel disease. Older patients were less likely to 
be treated with immunosuppression. If older patients have similar disease
behavior, less frequent treatment with immunosuppressives may risk suboptimally
controlled disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001115 
PMID: 28410340 


72. United European Gastroenterol J. 2016 Dec;4(6):794-799. doi:
10.1177/2050640616628515. Epub 2016 Jan 19.

Endoscopic balloon dilatation of Crohn's-associated intestinal strictures: High
patient satisfaction and long-term efficacy.

Rueda Guzmán A(1), Wehkamp J(1), Kirschniak A(2), Naumann A(3), Malek NP(1),
Goetz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Innere Medizin I, Universitätsklinikum Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Allgemeine, Viszeral- und Transplantationsmedizin, Universitätsklinikum
Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. (3)Institut für Klinische Epidemiologie und
angewandte Biometrie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Stricture formation is a common long-term complication of Crohn's
disease. Endoscopic balloon dilatation offers a bowel-sparing treatment option,
but long-term outcome and its association with patient-, stricture-, and
procedure-related factors is only poorly understood. Patient satisfaction with
endoscopic balloon dilatation is largely unknown.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of all endoscopic balloon dilatation
for Crohn's disease-related strictures between January 2005 and January 2013.
Long-term outcome, complication rates and predictive factors were evaluated.
Patient satisfaction was assessed using a questionnaire and telephone interviews.
RESULTS: A total of 118 balloon dilatations were performed for 69 strictures in
46 patients. One patient was excluded from further analysis due to malignancy.
Median time from diagnosis of Crohn's disease to symptomatic stricture formation 
was 19 years. Technical success, defined as passage of the endoscope after
dilatation, was reportedly obtained in 95 of 106 procedures (89.6%). Two
perforations occurred, one of which could be managed conservatively. No episodes 
of severe bleeding were recorded (procedure-related complication rate: 2/118;
1.7%). During a median follow-up of 4.8 years (range 0.4-8.7), 55.6% (25/45) of
patients were able to avoid surgery. Of the patients, 35.6% (16/45) did not need 
any further intervention, 40.0% (18/45) underwent more than one dilatation, and
24.4% (11/45) were operated after the first dilatation. The percentage of
patients who were satisfied with the procedure and would again opt for balloon
dilation as first line therapy was 83.3% (35/42). None of the risk factors
examined in this study correlated with the necessity for subsequent surgery.
DISCUSSION: Endoscopic balloon dilatation is a safe and effective first line
therapy for Crohn's disease-related strictures. No technical, stenosis-, or
patient-related factor reliably predicted sustained dilatation success. Patient
satisfaction was high.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640616628515 
PMCID: PMC5386227
PMID: 28408997 


73. United European Gastroenterol J. 2016 Dec;4(6):784-793. doi:
10.1177/2050640615600116. Epub 2015 Aug 6.

Risk factors for complications after ileocolonic resection for Crohn's disease
with a major focus on the impact of preoperative immunosuppressive and biologic
therapy: A retrospective international multicentre study.

Yamamoto T(1), Spinelli A(2), Suzuki Y(3), Saad-Hossne R(4), Teixeira FV(5), de
Albuquerque IC(6), da Silva RN(7), de Barcelos IF(7), Takeuchi K(3), Yamada A(3),
Shimoyama T(1), da Silva Kotze LM(8), Sacchi M(9), Danese S(10), Kotze PG(7).

Author information: 
(1)IBD Centre, Yokkaichi Hazu Medical Centre, Yokkaichi, Japan. (2)Colorectal
Surgery Unit, Humanitas Research Hospital, Department of Medical Biotechnologies 
and Translational Medicine, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. (3)Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Toho University
Medical Centre, Sakura Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Toho University, Sakura,
Japan. (4)Digestive Surgery Department, São Paulo State University (UNESP),
Botucatu, Brazil. (5)Colorectal Surgery, Gastrosaude, Marilia, Brazil. (6)IBD
Unit, Heliopolis Hospital, São Paulo, Brazil. (7)Colorectal Surgery Unit,
Catholic University of Parana, Curitiba, Brazil. (8)Gastroenterology Unit,
Catholic University of Parana, Curitiba, Brazil. (9)Colorectal Surgery Unit,
Humanitas Research Hospital, Milan, Italy. (10)IBD Unit, Humanitas Research
Hospital, Milano, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Author note: TY, AS, YS, FVT and PGK designed the study. All authors 
did data collection and gave scientific contribution to the study design and
discussion. TY, AS and PGK drafted the article. All authors read and approved the
final version of the manuscript.In the era of biologic agents, risk factors for
complications following resection for Crohn's disease have not been fully
identified. In particular, the association of preoperative use of
immunosuppressive and biologic agents with the incidence of complications after
resection remains to be elucidated.
AIM: This retrospective multicentre study aimed to identify risk factors for
complications after ileocolonic resection for Crohn's disease, with a major focus
on the impact of preoperative immunosuppressive and biologic therapy.
METHODS: A total of 231 consecutive patients who underwent ileocolonic resections
for active Crohn's disease in seven inflammatory bowel disease referral centres
from three countries (Japan, Brazil and Italy) were included. The following
variables were investigated as potential risk factors: age at surgery, gender,
behaviour of Crohn's disease (perforating vs. non-perforating disease), smoking, 
preoperative use (within eight weeks before surgery) of steroids,
immunosuppressants and biologic agents, previous resection, blood transfusion,
surgical procedure (open vs. laparoscopic approach), and type of anastomosis
(side-to-side vs. end-to-end). Postoperative complications occurring within 30
days after surgery were recorded.
RESULTS: The rates of overall complications, intra-abdominal sepsis, and
anastomotic leak were 24%, 12% and 8%, respectively. Neither immunosuppressive
nor biologic therapy prior to surgery was significantly associated with the
incidence of overall complications, intra-abdominal sepsis or anastomotic leak.
In multivariate analysis, blood transfusion, perforating disease and previous
resection were significant risk factors for overall complications (odds ratio
[OR] 3.02, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.21-7.52; P = 0.02), intra-abdominal
sepsis (OR 2.67, 95% CI 1.04-6.86; P = 0.04) and anastomotic leak (OR 2.87, 95%
CI 1.01-8.18; P = 0.048), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Blood transfusion, perforating disease and previous resection were
significant risk factors for overall complications, intra-abdominal sepsis and
anastomotic leak after ileocolonic resection for Crohn's disease, respectively.
Preoperative immunosuppressive or biologic therapy did not increase the risk of
postoperative complications.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640615600116 
PMCID: PMC5386221
PMID: 28408996 


74. Front Immunol. 2017 Mar 31;8:357. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00357. eCollection
2017.

Editorial: Understanding Crohn's Disease: Immunity, Genes and Microbes.

Sarmento A(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)FP-ENAS/CEBIMED, Energy, Environment and Health Research Unit, Biomedical
Research Centre, University Fernando Pessoa, Porto, Portugal. (2)Instituto de
Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular (IBMC), Universidade do Porto,
Porto, Portugal.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00357 
PMCID: PMC5374983
PMID: 28408908 


75. Gut. 2017 Apr 13. pii: gutjnl-2017-313805. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2017-313805. [Epub
ahead of print]

Protective effects of Helicobacter pylori for IBD are related to the
cagA-positive strain.

Lord AR(1), Simms LA(1), Hanigan K(1), Sullivan R(2), Hobson P(3), Radford-Smith 
GL(1,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Inflammatory Bowel Diseases, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute,
Brisbane, Australia. (2)Abacus ALS, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Immunology/Serology, Sullivan Nicolaides Pathology, Brisbane, Australia.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Brisbane,
Australia. (5)University of Queensland School of Medicine, Herston Campus,
Brisbane, Australia.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2017-313805 
PMID: 28408384 


76. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 14. doi: 10.5152/tjg.2017.24031. [Epub ahead of
print]

A microbial signature for Crohn's disease.

Çekin AH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Health Sciences, Antalya
Training and Research Hospital, Antalya, Turkey. ayhancekin@hotmail.com.

DOI: 10.5152/tjg.2017.24031 
PMID: 28408358 


77. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2017 Apr 14;66(14):377-381. doi:
10.15585/mmwr.mm6614a1.

Hospitalizations for Crohn's Disease - United States, 2003-2013.

Malarcher CA, Wheaton AG, Liu Y, Greenlund SF, Greenlund SJ, Lu H, Croft JB.

In 2009, an estimated 565,000 Americans had Crohn's disease (1), an inflammatory 
bowel disorder that can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms
include persistent diarrhea, abdominal cramps and pain, constipation leading to
bowel obstruction, and rectal bleeding.* Symptoms sometimes intensify in severity
and require hospitalization and surgeries of the small intestine, colon, or
rectum (2). Hospital discharge data from the National Inpatient Sample (NIS) of
the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) were used to estimate U.S.
hospitalizations(†) for Crohn's disease as both the first-listed and
any-listed(§) discharge diagnosis and common surgical procedures during
hospitalizations with Crohn's disease as first-listed diagnosis from 2003 to
2013, the most recent decade of data. Despite new therapies that were expected to
improve remission and reduce hospitalizations, estimated numbers (and
age-adjusted rates per 100,000 U.S. population) of hospitalizations for Crohn's
disease as the first-listed diagnosis did not change significantly from 2003 to
2013. The proportion of these hospitalizations during which small bowel resection
was performed decreased from 4.9% in 2003 to 3.9% in 2013 (p<0.05); however,
colorectal resection and fistula repair rates remained stable. Hospital stays for
any-listed Crohn's disease increased from >120,000 (44.2 per 100,000) in 2003 to 
>196,000 (59.7 per 100,000) in 2013 (p<0.05). Patient education initiatives
should focus on increasing awareness of exacerbating factors and medication
compliance to prevent hospitalizations.

DOI: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6614a1 
PMID: 28406887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2017 Apr 5. [Epub ahead of print]

The performance of different classification criteria in paediatric Behçet's
disease.

Batu ED(1), Sönmez HE(1), Sözeri B(2), Aviel YB(3), Bilginer Y(1), Özen S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Division of Rheumatology, Hacettepe University
Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey. (2)Department of Paediatrics, Division of
Rheumatology, Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine, Kayseri, Turkey.
(3)Paediatric Rheumatology Service, Meyer Children's Hospital, Rambam Medical
Centre, Haifa, Israel. (4)Department of Paediatrics, Division of Rheumatology,
Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.
sezaozen@hacettepe.edu.tr.

OBJECTIVES: Behçet's disease (BD) is a variable vessel vasculitis. The most
widely used classification criteria for adults is the International Behçet's
Study Group (ISG) criteria. Recently, the paediatric BD (PEDBD) classification
criteria has been developed for children. For disease activity, there are mainly 
two severity scores; the Iranian BD dynamic activity measure (IBDDAM) and BD
current activity form (BDCAF). We tested the performances of PEDBD and ISG
criteria and the correlation between severity scores and physician global
assessment (PGA) in children with BD.
METHODS: Thirty BD patients from Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey; 24 from
Erciyes University, Kayseri, Turkey; and 14 BD patients from Rambam Medical
Centre, Haifa, Israel were included. As controls, children with systemic lupus
erythematosus, polyarteritis nodosa, and Crohn disease from Turkey and Israel
were included. The sensitivity and specificity of the PEDBD and ISG criteria were
evaluated based on the features of the patients before or at 16 years of age. The
gold standard for the diagnosis of BD was based on expert opinion at each centre.
Expert PGA (visual analogue scale between 0-10; where 0 indicates no disease
activity), IBDDAM, and BDCAF were evaluated at the time of diagnosis and at last 
follow-up in all patients.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight BD (disease onset≤16 years; 44.1% male) and 90 control
patients were included. The sensitivity and specificity of PEDBD/ISG criteria
were 73.5%/52.9% and 97.7%/100%, respectively. Thirty-two (47%) patients with BD 
failed to fulfill ISG criteria while almost all met PEDBD criteria. The median
(interquartile range; IQR) IBDDAM and BDCAF scores at diagnosis were 6(4)/4(2);
significantly decreased to 1(2)/1(2), respectively at latest follow-up (p<0.001
for both). The median (IQR) PGA score at diagnosis was 5(2); significantly
decreased to 1(2) at latest follow-up (p<0.001). IBDDAM positively correlated
with BDCAF (r=0.637; p<0.001). PGA positively correlated with BDCAF and IBDDAM
(r=0.502; p<0.001 and r=0.624;p<0.001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, the PEDBD criteria showed better sensitivity than ISG 
criteria which is a big advantage for paediatric patients for early diagnosis. We
also demonstrated that the severity scores were positively correlated with each
other and PGA; thus may be used in clinical practice for paediatric BD patients.


PMID: 28406761 


79. Clin Transl Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 13;8(4):e87. doi: 10.1038/ctg.2017.13.

Genetic Characterization and Influence on Inflammatory Bowel Disease Expression
in a Diverse Hispanic South Florida Cohort.

Damas OM(1), Gomez L(2), Quintero MA(2), Rampersaud E(2), Slifer S(2), Beecham
GW(2,)(3), Kerman DH(1), Deshpande AR(1), Sussman DA(1), Abreu MT(1), McCauley
JL(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Miami
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA. (2)John P. Hussman Institute for 
Human Genomics, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida,
USA. (3)Dr John T. Macdonald Department of Human Genetics, University of Miami
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Hispanics represent an understudied inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) 
population. Prior studies examining genetic predisposition to IBD in Hispanics
are limited. In this study, we examined whether European-derived IBD variants
confer risk in Hispanics and their influence on IBD phenotype in Hispanics
compared to non-Hispanic whites (NHW).
METHODS: Self-identified Hispanics and NHWs with IBD were included. Hispanic
controls were included for our genetic analyses. We performed single-variant
testing at previously identified Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC)
IBD variants in Hispanic cases and controls. These risk variants were used to
compute individual genetic risk scores. Genetic risk scores and phenotype
associations were compared between Hispanic and NHW.
RESULTS: A total of 1,115 participants were included: 698 controls and 417 IBD
patients (230 Hispanics). We found evidence of association within our Hispanic
cohort at 22 IBD risk loci, with ~76% of the risk loci demonstrating
over-representation of the European risk allele; these included loci
corresponding to IL23R and NOD2 genes. CD genetic risk score for Hispanics
(199.67) was similar to the score for NHW (200.33), P=0.51; the same was true in 
UC. Genetic risk scores did not predict IBD phenotype or complications in
Hispanics or NHW except for a younger age of CD onset in Hispanics (P=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the fundamental importance of these loci in
IBD pathogenesis including in our diverse Hispanic population. Future studies
looking at non-genetic mechanisms of disease are needed to explain differences in
age of presentation and phenotype between Hispanics and NHW.

DOI: 10.1038/ctg.2017.13 
PMID: 28406493 


80. Nutrients. 2017 Apr 13;9(4). pii: E382. doi: 10.3390/nu9040382.

Associations between Folate and Vitamin B12 Levels and Inflammatory Bowel
Disease: A Meta-Analysis.

Pan Y(1), Liu Y(2), Guo H(3), Jabir MS(4), Liu X(5), Cui W(6), Li D(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, Jilin
University, 1163 Xinmin Avenue, Changchun 130021, China.
yunpan14@mails.jlu.edu.cn. (2)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of
Public Health, Jilin University, 1163 Xinmin Avenue, Changchun 130021, China.
liuya@jlu.edu.cn. (3)Department of Radiology, The Second Part of the First
Hospital, Jilin University, Changchun 130031, China. liuxc15@mails.jlu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, University of Technology, Baghdad 00964, Iraq.
doyouknow_0330@163.com. (5)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of
Public Health, Jilin University, 1163 Xinmin Avenue, Changchun 130021, China.
msj_iraq@yahoo.com. (6)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public
Health, Jilin University, 1163 Xinmin Avenue, Changchun 130021, China.
cuiweiwei@jlu.edu.cn. (7)Department of Immunology, College of Basic Medical
Sciences, Jilin University, 126 Xinmin Avenue, Changchun 130021, China.
lidong1@jlu.edu.cn. (8)Department of Hepatology, The First Hospital, Jilin
University, Changchun 130021, China. lidong1@jlu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients may be at risk of vitamin
B12 and folate insufficiencies, as these micronutrients are absorbed in the small
intestine, which is affected by IBD. However, a consensus has not been reached on
the association between IBD and serum folate and vitamin B12 concentrations.
METHODS: In this study, a comprehensive search of multiple databases was
performed to identify studies focused on the association between IBD and serum
folate and vitamin B12 concentrations. Studies that compared serum folate and
vitamin B12 concentrations between IBD and control patients were selected for
inclusion in the meta-analysis.
RESULTS: The main outcome was the mean difference in serum folate and vitamin B12
concentrations between IBD and control patients. Our findings indicated that the 
average serum folate concentration in IBD patients was significantly lower than
that in control patients, whereas the mean serum vitamin B12 concentration did
not differ between IBD patients and controls. In addition, the average serum
folate concentration in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) but not Crohn's
disease (CD) was significantly lower than that in controls. This meta-analysis
identified a significant relationship between low serum folate concentration and 
IBD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest IBD may be linked with folate deficiency,
although the results do not indicate causation. Thus, providing supplements of
folate and vitamin B12 to IBD patients may improve their nutritional status and
prevent other diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9040382 
PMID: 28406440 


81. Osteoporos Int. 2017 Apr 12. doi: 10.1007/s00198-017-4014-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Reduced bone mass and preserved marrow adipose tissue in patients with
inflammatory bowel diseases in long-term remission.

Bastos CM(1), Araújo IM(2), Nogueira-Barbosa MH(3), Salmon CE(4), de Paula FJ(2),
Troncon LE(5).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Ribeirão Preto
Medical School, University of São Paulo, Av Bandeirantes 3900, Ribeirão Preto,
SP, 14049-900, Brazil. bastosclara@yahoo.com.br. (2)Endocrinology Division,
Department of Internal Medicine, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil. (3)Radiology Division, Department of Internal
Medicine, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto,
Brazil. (4)Department of Physics, Ribeirão Preto Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences 
and Letters, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil. (5)Gastroenterology
Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Ribeirão Preto Medical School,
University of São Paulo, Av Bandeirantes 3900, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 14049-900,
Brazil.

Bone marrow adipose tissue has not been studied in patients with inactive
inflammatory bowel disease. We found that these patients have preserved marrow
adiposity even with low bone mass. Factors involved in bone loss in active
disease may have long-lasting effects but do not seem to affect bone marrow
adiposity.INTRODUCTION: Reduced bone mass is known to occur at varying prevalence
in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) because of inflammation,
malnutrition, and steroid therapy. Osteoporosis may develop in these patients as 
the result of an imbalanced relationship between osteoblasts and adipocytes in
bone marrow. This study aimed to evaluate for the first time bone mass and bone
marrow adipose tissue (BMAT) in a particular subgroup of IBD patients
characterized by long-term, steroid-free remission.
METHODS: Patients with Crohn's disease (CD; N = 21) and ulcerative colitis (UC;
N = 15) and controls (C; N = 65) underwent dual X-ray energy absorptiometry and
nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the L3 lumbar vertebra for BMAT
assessment.
RESULTS: Both the CD and UC subgroups showed significantly higher proportions of 
patients than controls with Z-score ≤-2.0 at L1-L4 (C 1.54%; CD 19.05%; UC 20%;
p = 0.02), but not at other sites. The proportions of CD patients with a T-score 
˂-1.0 at the femoral neck (C 18.46%; CD 47.62%; p = 0.02) and total hip (C
16.92%; CD 42.86%; p = 0.03) were significantly higher than among controls. There
were no statistically significant differences between IBD patients and controls
regarding BMAT at L3 (C 28.62 ± 8.15%; CD 29.81 ± 6.90%; UC 27.35 ± 9.80%;
p = 0.67).
CONCLUSIONS: IBD patients in long-term, steroid-free remission may have a low
bone mass in spite of preserved BMAT. These findings confirm the heterogeneity of
bone disorders in IBD and may indicate that factors involved in bone loss in
active disease may have long-lasting effects on these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-017-4014-3 
PMID: 28405731 


82. Chirurg. 2017 Apr 12. doi: 10.1007/s00104-017-0421-4. [Epub ahead of print]

[Differential indications for ileoanal pouch anastomosis : Ulcerative colitis,
familial adenomatous polyposis, synchronous colorectal cancer - Crohn's disease, 
constipation].

[Article in German]

Fürst A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Allgemein-, Viszeral-, Thoraxchirurgie, Adipositasmedizin,
Caritas-Krankenhaus St. Josef, Landshuterstr. 65, 93052, Regensburg, Deutschland.
afuerst@caritasstjosef.de.

Ileoanal pouch anastomosis is the procedure of choice for patients with drug
refractory ulcerative colitis, indeterminate colitis and familial adenomatous
polyposis (FAP). In selected patient groups this procedure is a treatment option 
for patients with Crohn's disease, hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer
(HNPCC), synchronous colorectal cancer and for severe colorectal constipation
refractory to conservative drug treatment. The pouch procedure provides the
opportunity to avoid a permanent ileostomy. The majority of surgeons prefer the
ileal J‑pouch as the construction is the easiest to perform and complications and
dysfunction rates are low. Due to functional reasons most pouch surgeons favor
a circular stapled ileoanal pouch anastomosis. The more radical proctocolectomy
can produce sensory defects in the anal canal with subsequent soiling and
incontinence. Studies have shown that even after proctocolectomy residual rectal 
mucosa was found in the anal canal. Therefore, the functionally important
anorectal transitional zone should be preserved if possible. Ulcerative colitis
can be "healed" with proctocolectomy; however, pouchitis can still occur in one
third of the patients. Patients must be informed about the risk of pouchitis and 
a multidisciplinary monitoring and treatment strategy must be available. In
Crohn's disease the ileoanal pouch survival rate of 80% in the long-term
follow-up is surprisingly good despite an increased postoperative complication
rate. The anal pouch anastomosis is the standard operation in patients with drug 
refractory ulcerative colitis, indeterminate colitis and FAP. Synchronous
colorectal cancer, HNPCC and severe therapy refractive constipation represent
rare indications for proctocolectomy where decisions must be made on an
individual basis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-017-0421-4 
PMID: 28405717 


83. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2017 Mar 28;11:661-669. doi: 10.2147/PPA.S121032.
eCollection 2017.

Patient experience with intravenous biologic therapies for ankylosing
spondylitis, Crohn's disease, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, rheumatoid
arthritis, and ulcerative colitis.

Bolge SC(1), Eldridge HM(2), Lofland JH(3), Ravin C(3), Hart PJ(4), Ingham MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC,
Raritan. (2)Payer Provider Insights & Analytics, Janssen Services, LLC,
Titusville, NJ. (3)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Janssen Scientific
Affairs, LLC, Horsham, PA. (4)Value Communications, Medaxial Group, New York, NY,
USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to describe patient experience with
intravenous (IV) biologics for ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, psoriatic
arthritis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, or ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: Semi-structured telephone interviews were conducted in 405 patients with
these autoimmune diseases who were receiving an IV biologic to treat their
disease.
RESULTS: On a 7-point scale (1= not at all satisfied; 7= very satisfied), mean
satisfaction with IV medication was rated 6.1; 77% of patients rated satisfaction
as 6 or 7. The most frequently perceived benefits of IV therapy were related to
supervision provided by health care professionals. Most patients (82%, n=332)
preferred their IV medication to subcutaneous injection. The three most common
reasons for preferring IV were not wanting to self-inject (43%), less frequent
dosing (34%), and preference for administration by a health care professional
(24%). African-American/black patients had a stronger preference for IV
administration than Caucasian/white patients (97% vs 80%, P<0.05) and a greater
dislike of needles/self-injection (71% vs 40%, P<0.05). Hospital outpatient
departments were not rated as well as physician in-office infusion. Only half
(49%) of the patients reported that both they and their physician equally
influenced the choice to switch from subcutaneous to IV therapy, and only 30%
were given a choice of infusion center.
CONCLUSION: Users of IV biologics are highly satisfied with their medications and
perceive the opportunity for health care provider interaction at their infusion
facilities as an advantage of their regimen. These findings support continued
need for IV therapeutic options and shared decision-making between patients and
physicians while selecting biologic treatments.

DOI: 10.2147/PPA.S121032 
PMCID: PMC5378465
PMID: 28405158 

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure At the time of the research SC Bolge, 
JH Lofland, C Ravin, and MP Ingham were employees of Janssen Scientific Affairs, 
LLC and H Eldridge was an employee of Janssen Services, LLC. SC Bolge, JH
Lofland, MP Ingham, and H Eldridge are stockholders of parent company Johnson &
Johnson. PJ Hart was an employee of the Medaxial Group. The authors report no
other conflicts of interest in this work.


84. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 28;23(12):2124-2140. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v23.i12.2124.

Diet and microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease: The gut in disharmony.

Rapozo DC(1), Bernardazzi C(1), de Souza HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Davy C M Rapozo, Coordenação de Pesquisa, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de
Janeiro, RJ 20230-130, Brazil.

Bacterial colonization of the gut shapes both the local and the systemic immune
response and is implicated in the modulation of immunity in both healthy and
disease states. Recently, quantitative and qualitative changes in the composition
of the gut microbiota have been detected in Crohn's disease and ulcerative
colitis, reinforcing the hypothesis of dysbiosis as a relevant mechanism
underlying inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) pathogenesis. Humans and microbes
have co-existed and co-evolved for a long time in a mutually beneficial symbiotic
association essential for maintaining homeostasis. However, the microbiome is
dynamic, changing with age and in response to environmental modifications. Among 
such environmental factors, food and alimentary habits, progressively altered in 
modern societies, appear to be critical modulators of the microbiota,
contributing to or co-participating in dysbiosis. In addition, food constituents 
such as micronutrients are important regulators of mucosal immunity, with direct 
or indirect effects on the gut microbiota. Moreover, food constituents have
recently been shown to modulate epigenetic mechanisms, which can result in
increased risk for the development and progression of IBD. Therefore, it is
likely that a better understanding of the role of different food components in
intestinal homeostasis and the resident microbiota will be essential for
unravelling the complex molecular basis of the epigenetic, genetic and
environment interactions underlying IBD pathogenesis as well as for offering
dietary interventions with minimal side effects.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i12.2124 
PMCID: PMC5374124
PMID: 28405140 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors
declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this
paper.


85. Proc (Bayl Univ Med Cent). 2017 Apr;30(2):213-214.

Leukocytoclastic vasculitis drug reaction to certolizumab pegol.

Woody M(1), Warren D(1), Speck L(1), Jackson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Dell Medical School, Austin, Texas (Woody); Baylor Scott &
White, Marble Falls, Texas (Warren); and Westlake Dermatology, Austin, Texas
(Speck, Jackson).

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antagonists are a common treatment modality for
autoimmune disorders, but their use can be associated with many side effects,
including various dermatologic conditions. Certolizumab pegol, a newer TNF
antagonist that lacks the Fc portion of the IgG antibody, has recently been
approved to treat psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and Crohn's disease.
Though other TNF antagonists have been associated with leukocytoclastic
vasculitis, this finding has not yet been reported with certolizumab pegol. We
present a case report of leukocytoclastic vasculitis caused by certolizumab
pegol.


PMCID: PMC5349833
PMID: 28405087 


86. Vaccine. 2017 May 9;35(20):2633-2641. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.03.080. Epub
2017 Apr 9.

Immune response to hepatitis B vaccination among people with inflammatory bowel
diseases: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Jiang HY(1), Wang SY(2), Deng M(1), Li YC(1), Ling ZX(1), Shao L(1), Ruan B(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases,
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310003, China. (2)Department of Nosocomial Infection Management, Hangzhou First
People's Hospital, Hangzhou 310006, China. (3)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, Collaborative Innovation Center for
Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital,
College of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310003, China. Electronic address:
hzruanbing@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: The response rate to hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination in
patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is low and varies markedly. We
performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the response rate to
HBV vaccination and identified the factors predictive of an immune response.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Cochrane Library, and Embase databases, and reviewed
the titles and abstracts of studies on the efficacy of HBV vaccination in IBD
patients performed through July 2016. Anti-HBs levels>10IU/L was considered to be
an effective immune response. The primary outcome measure was the response rate
to HBV vaccination after series completion, and the secondary outcome was
identification of factors at baseline predictive of an immune response.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies including 1688 patients were eligible for inclusion.
Based on a random-effects model, the pooled rate of a response to HBV vaccination
among patients with IBD was 61% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 53-69). Young age 
(mean difference [MD]: -5.7; 95% CI: -8.46, -2.95) and vaccination during disease
remission (relative risk [RR]: 1.62; 95% CI: 1.15-2.29) were associated with a
positive response to HBV vaccination. In addition, no immunosuppressive therapy
was predictive of an immune response compared to immunomodulatory (RR: 1.33; 95% 
CI: 1.08-1.63) or anti-tumor necrosis factor-α (anti-TNF-α) (RR: 1.57; 95% CI:
1.19-2.08) therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this meta-analysis, only three of five IBD patients will
show a serological response to HBV vaccination. Vaccination should be performed
at the time of IBD diagnosis, during disease remission, or before starting
immunosuppressive therapy.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.03.080 
PMID: 28404358 


87. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Dec;1(4):307-316. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30077-2. Epub 2016 Nov 10.

Globalisation of inflammatory bowel disease: perspectives from the evolution of
inflammatory bowel disease in the UK and China.

Kaplan GG(1), Ng SC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medicine and Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada. Electronic address: ggkaplan@ucalgary.ca. (2)Department of
Medicine and Therapeutics, Institute of Digestive Disease, State Key Laboratory
of Digestive Diseases, LKS Institute of Health Science, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.

The UK and China provide unique historical perspectives on the evolution of the
incidence of inflammatory bowel disease, which might provide insight into its
pathogenesis. Historical records from the UK document the emergence of ulcerative
colitis during the mid-1800s, which was later followed by the recognition of
Crohn's disease in 1932. During the second half of the 20th century, the
incidence of inflammatory bowel disease rose dramatically in high-income
countries. Globalisation at the turn of the 21st century led to rapid economic
development of newly industrialised countries such as China. In China, the
modernisation of society was accompanied by the recognition of a sharp rise in
the incidence of inflammatory bowel disease. The prevalence of inflammatory bowel
disease is expected to continue to rise in high-income countries and is also
likely to accelerate in the developing world. An understanding of the shared and 
different environmental determinants underpinning the pathogenesis of
inflammatory bowel disease in western and eastern countries is essential to
implement interventions that will blunt the rising global burden of inflammatory 
bowel disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30077-2 
PMID: 28404201 


88. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Dec;1(4):273-282. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30078-4. Epub 2016 Aug 30.

Mercaptopurine versus placebo to prevent recurrence of Crohn's disease after
surgical resection (TOPPIC): a multicentre, double-blind, randomised controlled
trial.

Mowat C(1), Arnott I(2), Cahill A(3), Smith M(4), Ahmad T(5), Subramanian S(6),
Travis S(7), Morris J(3), Hamlin J(8), Dhar A(9), Nwokolo C(10), Edwards C(11),
Creed T(12), Bloom S(13), Yousif M(14), Thomas L(15), Campbell S(16), Lewis
SJ(17), Sebastian S(18), Sen S(19), Lal S(20), Hawkey C(21), Murray C(22),
Cummings F(23), Goh J(24), Lindsay JO(25), Arebi N(26), Potts L(27), McKinley
AJ(28), Thomson JM(4), Todd JA(1), Collie M(29), Dunlop MG(29), Mowat A(4), Gaya 
DR(3), Winter J(3), Naismith GD(30), Ennis H(31), Keerie C(31), Lewis S(31),
Prescott RJ(32), Kennedy NA(33), Satsangi J(34); TOPPIC Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, UK. (2)Gastrointestinal
Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK. (3)Gastrointestinal Unit, Glasgow 
Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK. (4)Gastrointestinal Unit, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary,
Aberdeen, UK. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital 
NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK; IBD Pharmacogenetics Unit, University of
Exeter, Exeter, UK. (6)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Liverpool University
Hospital, Liverpool, UK. (7)Translational Gastroenterology Unit, Nuffield
Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds Teaching
Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK. (9)Department of Gastroenterology, Darlington
Memorial Hospital, Darlington, UK. (10)Department of Gastroenterology, University
Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, UK. (11)Department of
Gastroenterology, Torbay Hospital, South Devon Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust,
Torbay, Devon, UK. (12)Department of Gastroenterology, Bristol Royal Infirmary,
University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol, UK. (13)Department of
Gastroenterology, University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,
London, UK. (14)Department of Gastroenterology, Rotherham NHS Foundation Trust
Hospital, Rotherham, UK. (15)Department of Gastroenterology, Singleton Hospital, 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board, Swansea, UK. (16)Department of
Gastroenterology, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Central Manchester University
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK. (17)Department of
Gastroenterology, Derriford Hospital, Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, Plymouth, UK.
(18)Department of Gastroenterology, Hull Royal Infirmary, Hull and East Yorkshire
Hospitals NHS Trust, Hull, UK. (19)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Stoke
University Hospital, University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust,
Stoke-on-Trent, UK. (20)Department of Gastroenterology, Salford Royal NHS
Foundation Trust Hospital, Salford, UK. (21)Department of Gastroenterology,
Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK. (22)Department of
Gastroenterology, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust Hospital, London, UK.
(23)Department of Gastroenterology, Southampton General Hospital, University
Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK. (24)Department of
Gastroenterology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS
Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK. (25)Department of Gastroenterology, Barts
Health NHS Trust, Barts and the London School of Medicine, London, UK.
(26)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Unit, St Mark's Hospital, North West London
Hospitals NHS Trust, London, UK. (27)Gastrointestinal Unit, Raigmore Hospital,
Inverness, UK. (28)Department of Surgery, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.
(29)Colorectal Surgery, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(30)Gastrointestinal Unit, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, UK.
(31)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(32)Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. (33)Gastrointestinal
Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK; IBD Pharmacogenetics Unit,
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. (34)Gastrointestinal Unit, Western General
Hospital, Edinburgh, UK. Electronic address: jack.satsangi@igmm.ed.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Up to 60% of patients with Crohn's disease need intestinal resection 
within the first 10 years of diagnosis, and postoperative recurrence is common.
We investigated whether mercaptopurine can prevent or delay postoperative
clinical recurrence of Crohn's disease.
METHODS: We did a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial at 29 UK
secondary and tertiary hospitals of patients (aged >16 years in Scotland or >18
years in England and Wales) who had a confirmed diagnosis of Crohn's disease and 
had undergone intestinal resection. Patients were randomly assigned (1:1) by a
computer-generated web-based randomisation system to oral daily mercaptopurine at
a dose of 1 mg/kg bodyweight rounded to the nearest 25 mg or placebo; patients
with low thiopurine methyltransferase activity received half the normal dose.
Patients and their carers and physicians were masked to the treatment allocation.
Patients were followed up for 3 years. The primary endpoint was clinical
recurrence of Crohn's disease (Crohn's Disease Activity Index >150 plus 100-point
increase in score) and the need for anti-inflammatory rescue treatment or primary
surgical intervention. Primary and safety analyses were by intention to treat.
Subgroup analyses by smoking status, previous thiopurines, previous infliximab or
methotrexate, previous surgery, duration of disease, or age at diagnosis were
also done. This trial is registered with the International Standard Randomised
Controlled Trial Register (ISRCTN89489788) and the European Clinical Trials
Database (EudraCT number 2006-005800-15).
FINDINGS: Between June 6, 2008, and April 23, 2012, 240 patients with Crohn's
disease were randomly assigned: 128 to mercaptopurine and 112 to placebo. All
patients received at least one dose of study drug, and no randomly assigned
patients were excluded from the analysis. 16 (13%) of patients in the
mercaptopurine group versus 26 (23%) patients in the placebo group had a clinical
recurrence of Crohn's disease and needed anti-inflammatory rescue treatment or
primary surgical intervention (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0·54, 95% CI 0·27-1·06;
p=0·07; unadjusted HR 0·53, 95% CI 0·28-0·99; p=0·046). In a subgroup analysis,
three (10%) of 29 smokers in the mercaptopurine group and 12 (46%) of 26 in the
placebo group had a clinical recurrence that needed treatment (HR 0·13, 95% CI
0·04-0·46), compared with 13 (13%) of 99 non-smokers in the mercaptopurine group 
and 14 (16%) of 86 in the placebo group (0·90, 0·42-1·94; pinteraction=0·018).
The effect of mercaptopurine did not significantly differ from placebo for any of
the other planned subgroup analyses (previous thiopurines, previous infliximab or
methotrexate, previous surgery, duration of disease, or age at diagnosis). The
incidence and types of adverse events were similar in the mercaptopurine and
placebo groups. One patient on placebo died of ischaemic heart disease. Adverse
events caused discontinuation of treatment in 39 (30%) of 128 patients in the
mercaptopurine group versus 41 (37%) of 112 in the placebo group.
INTERPRETATION: Mercaptopurine is effective in preventing postoperative clinical 
recurrence of Crohn's disease, but only in patients who are smokers. Thus, in
smokers, thiopurine treatment seems to be justified in the postoperative period, 
although smoking cessation should be strongly encouraged given that smoking
increases the risk of recurrence.
FUNDING: Medical Research Council.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access
article under the CC BY license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30078-4 
PMID: 28404197 


89. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Dec;1(4):262-263. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30115-7. Epub 2016 Nov 10.

Postoperative thiopurines in smokers with Crohn's disease.

Cosnes J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital St-Antoine, 75012 Paris, France; Pierre-and-Marie-Curie University,
Paris 75012, France. Electronic address: jacques.cosnes@sat.aphp.fr.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30115-7 
PMID: 28404188 


90. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr;2(4):269-276. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30004-3. Epub 2017 Feb 21.

Risk of colorectal cancer in Asian patients with ulcerative colitis: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Bopanna S(1), Ananthakrishnan AN(2), Kedia S(1), Yajnik V(2), Ahuja V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
Delhi, India. (2)Massachusetts General Hospital, Crohn's and Colitis Center,
Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: vineet.aiims@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The increased risk of colorectal cancer in ulcerative colitis is well
known. The risk of sporadic colorectal cancer in Asian populations is considered 
low and risk estimates of colorectal cancer related to ulcerative colitis from
Asia vary. This meta-analysis is an Asian perspective on the risk of colorectal
cancer related to ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and Embase for terms related to colorectal cancer in 
ulcerative colitis from inception to July 1, 2016. The search for published
articles was done by country for all countries in Asia. We included studies with 
information on the prevalence and cumulative risk of colorectal cancer at various
timepoints. A random-effects meta-analysis was done to calculate the pooled
prevalence as well as a cumulative risk at 10 years, 20 years, and 30 years of
disease.
FINDINGS: Our search identified 2575 articles; of which 44 were eligible for
inclusion. Our analysis included a total of 31 287 patients with ulcerative
colitis with a total of 293 reported colorectal cancers. Using pooled prevalence 
estimates from various studies, the overall prevalence was 0·85% (95% CI
0·65-1·04). The risks for colorectal cancer were 0·02% (95% CI 0·00-0·04) at 10
years, 4·81% (3·26-6·36) at 20 years, and 13·91% (7·09-20·72) at 30 years.
Subgroup analysis by stratifying the studies according to region or period of the
study did not reveal any significant differences.
INTERPRETATION: We found the risk of colorectal cancer in Asian patients with
ulcerative colitis was similar to recent estimates in Europe and North America.
Adherence to screening is therefore necessary. Larger population-based,
prospective studies are required for better estimates of the risk.
FUNDING: Indo-US Science and Technology Forum.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30004-3 
PMID: 28404156 


91. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr;2(4):245-246. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30049-3. Epub 2017 Mar 9.

The role of the mesentery in Crohn's disease.

Buskens CJ(1), de Groof EJ(2), Bemelman WA(2), Wildenberg ME(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center, 1100 DD Amsterdam,
Netherlands. Electronic address: c.j.buskens@amc.uva.nl. (2)Department of
Surgery, Academic Medical Center, 1100 DD Amsterdam, Netherlands. (3)Tytgat
Institute for Liver and Intestinal Research, Academic Medical Center, 1100 DD
Amsterdam, Netherlands; Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Academic
Medical Center, 1100 DD Amsterdam, Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30049-3 
PMID: 28404147 


92. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr;2(4):244-245. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30036-5. Epub 2017 Mar 9.

The role of the mesentery in Crohn's disease.

Li Y(1), Zhu W(2), Gong J(1), Shen B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210002, Jiangsu, China. (2)Department of General Surgery,
Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing University, Nanjing 210002, Jiangsu, 
China. Electronic address: juwiming@nju.edu.cn. (3)Department of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30036-5 
PMID: 28404145 


93. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Feb;2(2):81-82. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30222-9. Epub 2017 Jan 12.

A plea for TDM-based optimisation for treatment of Crohn's disease - Authors'
reply.

Kennedy NA(1), Keerie C(2), Mowat C(3), Satsangi J(4).

Author information: 
(1)IBD Pharmacogenetics, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. Electronic address:
nick.kennedy1@nhs.net. (2)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, University of
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. (3)Gastrointestinal Unit, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee,
UK. (4)Gastrointestinal Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30222-9 
PMID: 28403991 


94. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Feb;2(2):81. doi:
10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30210-2. Epub 2017 Jan 12.

A plea for TDM-based optimisation for treatment of Crohn's disease.

Seinen ML(1), de Boer NK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, VU University Medical Center,
PO Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Electronic address:
ml.seinen@vumc.nl. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, VU
University Medical Center, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(16)30210-2 
PMID: 28403990 


95. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2017 Apr 12. doi: 10.1111/jdv.14274. [Epub ahead of
print]

Decrease of serum IL-32 level in patients with atopic dermatitis after
cyclosporine treatment.

Kitayama N(1), Otsuka A(1), Nonomura Y(1), Nakashima C(1), Honda T(1), Kabashima 
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine,
Kyoto, Japan.

Interleukin (IL)-32 is a proinflammatory cytokine that is involved in the
inflammatory processes of rheumatoid arthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and Crohn disease. [1] Recent studies have reported that IL-32 also
contributes to the pathophysiology of atopic dermatitis (AD) in the early stages.
[2] IL-32 is expressed in the lesional skin of patients with AD and that serum
levels of IL-32 in patients with AD are elevated. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.14274 
PMID: 28403511 


96. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000364. [Epub
ahead of print]

Etiopathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease: today and tomorrow.

de Souza HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)aServiço de Gastroenterologia e Laboratório Multidisciplinar de Pesquisa,
Departamento de Clínica Médica, Hospital Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro bD'Or Institute for Research and Education
(IDOR), Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, the two major forms of
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), represent chronic diseases of unknown cause,
and they are regarded as prototypical complex diseases. Despite all the recent
advances, a complete appreciation of the pathogenesis of IBD is still limited. In
this review, we present recent information contributing to a better understanding
of mechanisms underlying IBD.
RECENT FINDINGS: Here, we attempt to highlight novel environmental triggers, data
on the gut microbiota, its interaction with the host, and the potential influence
of diet and food components. We discuss recent findings on defective signaling
pathways and the potential effects on the immune response, and we present new
data on epigenetic changes, inflammasome, and damage-associated molecular
patterns associated with IBD.
SUMMARY: The continuing identification of several epigenetic, transcriptomic,
proteomic, and metabolomic alterations in patients with IBD reflects the complex 
nature of the disease and suggests the need for innovative approaches such as
systems biology for identifying novel relevant targets in IBD.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000364 
PMID: 28402995 


97. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000363. [Epub
ahead of print]

Intestinal fibrosis: ready to be reversed.

Latella G(1), Rieder F.

Author information: 
(1)aGastroenterology Unit, Department of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences,
University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy bDepartment of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology and Nutrition, Digestive Disease and Surgery Institute cDepartment of 
Pathobiology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation Lerner Research Institute,
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Intestinal fibrosis is a common complication of several
enteropathies, with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) being the major cause.
Intestinal fibrosis affects both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, and no
specific antifibrotic therapy exists. This review highlights recent developments 
in this area.
RECENT FINDINGS: The pathophysiology of intestinal stricture formation includes
inflammation-dependent and inflammation-independent mechanisms. A better
understanding of the mechanisms of intestinal fibrogenesis and the availability
of compounds for other nonintestinal fibrotic diseases bring clincial trials in
stricturing Crohn's disease within reach.
SUMMARY: Improved understanding of its mechanisms and ongoing development of
clinical trial endpoints for intestinal fibrosis will allow the testing of novel 
antifibrotic compounds in IBD.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000363 
PMID: 28402994 


98. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx051. [Epub ahead of
print]

Adalimumab Vs Azathioprine in the Prevention of Postoperative Crohn's Disease
Recurrence. A Geteccu Randomized Trial.

López-Sanromán A(1), Vera-Mendoza I(2), Domènech E(3,)(4), Taxonera C(5), Vega
Ruiz V(6), Marín-Jiménez I(7), Guardiola J(8), Castro L(9), Esteve M(10,)(4),
Iglesias E(11), Ceballos D(12), Martínez-Montiel P(13), Gisbert JP(14,)(4),
Mínguez M(15), Echarri A(16), Calvet X(17,)(4), Barrio J(18), Hinojosa J(19),
Martín-Arranz MD(20), Márquez-Mosquera L(21), Bermejo F(22), Rimola J(23), Pons
V(24,)(4), Nos P(24,)(4); Spanish GETECCU group (APPRECIA study).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro
Majadahonda, Majadahonda, Spain. (3)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital
Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain. (4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en
Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd). (5)Digestive Diseases
Unit, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Instituto Investigación Sanitaria San Carlos
(IdISSC), Madrid, Spain. (6)General Surgery Unit, Hospital Universitario Puerto
Real, Puerto Real, Spain. (7)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Gregorio Marañón, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón (IiSGM), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge-IDIBELL, 
Barcelona, Spain. (9)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario Virgen de
Macarena, Sevilla, Spain. (10)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital
Universitari Mutua Terrassa, Terrassa, Spain. (11)Digestive Diseases Unit,
Hospital Reina Sofía, Córdoba, Spain. (12)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit,
Hospital Universitario de Gran Canaria Doctor Negrín, Las Palmas, Spain.
(13)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain. (14)Digestive
Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, Instituto de Investigación 
Sanitaria La Princesa (IIS-IP), Madrid, Spain. (15)Digestive Diseases Unit,
Hospital Clínic de Valencia, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(16)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Arquitecto Marcide, Ferrol, Spain.
(17)Digestive Diseases Unit, Corporació Sanitària Parc Taulí, Sabadell, Spain.
(18)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario Río Hortega, Valladolid,
Spain. (19)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital de Manises, Valencia, Spain.
(20)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(21)Gastroenterology-Hepatology Unit, Hospital Del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(22)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario de Fuenlabrada, Fuenlabrada, 
Spain. (23)Radiology Unit, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona,
Spain. (24)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario y Politécnico de La
Fe, Valencia, Spain.

Background and Aims: Postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease (POR-CD) is
almost certain if no prophylaxis is administered. Evidence for optimal treatment 
is lacking. Our aim was to compare the efficacy of adalimumab (ADA) and
azathioprine (AZA) in this setting.
Methods: We performed a phase 3, 52-week, multicenter, randomized, superiority
study (APPRECIA), in which patients with ileocolic resection were randomized
either to ADA 160-80-40 mg SC or AZA 2.5 mg/kg/d, both associated to
metronidazole. The primary endpoint was endoscopic recurrence at 1 year
(Rutgeerts i2b, i3, i4), as evaluated by a blinded central reader.
Results: We recruited 91 patients (median age 35.0 y, disease duration 6.0 y;
23.8% smokers, 7.1% previous resections). The study drugs were administered to 84
patients. Treatment was discontinued owing to adverse events in 11 patients
(13.1%). Discontinuation was significantly less frequent in the ADA (4.4%) than
in the AZA group (23.2%) (Dif.: 18.6% [95% CI 4.1-33.2], P=0.011). According to
the intention-to-treat analysis, therapy failed in 23/39 patients in the AZA
group (59%) and 19/45 patients in the ADA group (42.2%) (P=0.12). In the
per-protocol analysis (61 patients with centrally evaluable images), recurrence
was recorded in 8/24 (33.3%) patients in the AZA and 11/37 (29.7%) in the ADA
group (P=0.76). No statistically significant differences between the groups were 
found for recurrence in magnetic resonance images, biologic markers of activity, 
surgical procedures, or hospital admissions.
Conclusions: ADA has not demonstrated a better efficacy than AZA (both associated
to metronidazole) for prophylaxis of POR-CD in an unselected population, although
tolerance to ADA is significantly better. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01564823.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx051 
PMID: 28402454 


99. Br J Radiol. 2017 Apr 12:20160654. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20160654. [Epub ahead of
print]

Semi-automatic bowel wall thickness measurements on MR enterography in patients
with Crohn's disease.

Naziroglu RE(1), Puylaert CA(2), Tielbeek JA(2), Makanyanga JC(3), Menys A(3),
Ponsioen CY(2), Hatzakis H(4), Taylor SA(3), Stoker J(2), van Vliet LJ(1), Vos
FM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Imaging Physics, Delft University of Technology, Lorentzweg1, 
2628 CJ, Delft, The Netherlands. (2)2 Department of Radiology, Academic Medical
Center, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (3)3 Center for Medical Imaging, University College London, United
Kingdom. (4)4 Biotronics3D inc, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a semi-automatic method for delineation of the bowel wall 
and measurement of the wall thickness in patients with Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Fifty-three patients with suspected or proven Crohn's disease were
selected. Two radiologists independently supervised the delineation of regions
with active Crohn's disease on MRI, yielding manual annotations (Ano1, Ano2).
Three observers manually measured the maximal bowel wall thickness of each
annotated segment. An active contour segmentation approach semi-automatically
delineated the bowel wall. For each active region, two segmentations (Seg1, Seg2)
were obtained by independent observers, in which the maximum wall thickness was
automatically determined. The overlap between (Seg1, Seg2) was compared with the 
overlap of (Ano1, Ano2) using Wilcoxon's signed rank test. The corresponding
variances were compared using the Brown-Forsythe test. The variance of the
semi-automatic thickness measurements was compared to the overall variance of
manual measurements through an F-test. Furthermore, the Intraclass Correlation
Coefficient (ICC) of semi-automatic thickness measurements was compared to the
ICC of manual measurements through a likelihood-ratio test.
RESULTS: Patient demographics: median age: 30, IQR: [25,38]; 33 female. The
median overlap of the semi-automatic segmentations (Seg1 vs Seg2: 0.89) was
significantly larger than the median overlap of the manual annotations (Ano1 vs
Ano2: 0.72): p = 1.4 10 (-5). The variance in overlap of semi-automatic
segmentations was significantly smaller than the variance in overlap of manual
annotations (p = 1.1 10 (-9)). The variance of the semi-automated measurements
(0.46 mm(2)) was significantly smaller than the variance of the manual
measurements (2.90 mm(2), p = 1.1*10(-7)). The ICC of semi-automatic measurement 
(0.88) was significantly higher than the ICC of manual measurement (0.45): p =
0.005.
CONCLUSIONS: The semi-automatic technique facilitates reproducible delineation of
regions with active Crohn's disease. The semi-automatic thickness measurement
sustains significantly improved interobserver agreement. Advances in knowledge:
Automation of bowel wall thickness measurements strongly increases
reproducibility of these measurements, which are commonly used in MRI scoring
systems of Crohn's disease activity.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20160654 
PMID: 28401775 


100. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4572-4. [Epub ahead of print]

Medical Therapies for Stricturing Crohn's Disease: Efficacy and Cross-Sectional
Imaging Predictors of Therapeutic Failure.

Campos C(1), Perrey A(2), Lambert C(3), Pereira B(3), Goutte M(1,)(4), Dubois
A(5), Goutorbe F(1), Dapoigny M(1), Bommelaer G(1,)(4), Hordonneau C(2), Buisson 
A(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Hépato-Gastro Entérologie, Inserm, 3iHP, CHU Clermont-Ferrand,
Université Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (2)Service de Radiologie,
CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Université Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(3)Unité de Biostatistiques, DRCI, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Université Clermont
Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (4)M2iSH, Inserm U1071, 3iHP, USC-INRA 2018, 
Université Clermont Auvergne, 63000, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (5)Service de
Chirurgie Digestive, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Université Clermont Auvergne,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (6)Service d'Hépato-Gastro Entérologie, Inserm, 3iHP,
CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Université Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
a_buisson@hotmail.fr. (7)M2iSH, Inserm U1071, 3iHP, USC-INRA 2018, Université
Clermont Auvergne, 63000, Clermont-Ferrand, France. a_buisson@hotmail.fr.

BACKGROUND: Medical therapy efficacy remains controversial in stricturing Crohn's
disease. Cross-sectional imaging, especially magnetic resonance imaging, has been
suggested as very helpful to guide therapeutic decision making.
AIM: To assess efficacy and predictors of therapeutic failure in patients
receiving medical treatments for stricturing Crohn's disease.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, therapeutic failure was defined as
symptomatic stricture leading to surgical or endoscopic therapeutics,
hospitalization, treatment discontinuation or additional therapy and short-term
clinical response as clinical improvement assessed by two physicians. The 55
cross-sectional imaging examinations (33 magnetic resonance imaging and 22 CT
scan) before starting medical therapy were analyzed independently by two
radiologists. Results were expressed as hazard ratio (HR) or odds ratio (OR) with
95% confidence intervals (95% CI).
RESULTS: Among 84 patients, therapeutic failure rate within 60 months was 66.6%. 
In multivariate analysis, Crohn's disease diagnosis after 40 years old (HR 3.9,
95% CI [1.37-11.2], p = 0.011), small stricture luminal diameter (HR 1.34, 95% CI
[1.01-1.80], p = 0.046), increased stricture wall thickness (HR 1.23, 95% CI
[1.04-1.46], p = 0.013) and fistula with abscess (HR 5.63, 95% CI [1.64-19.35],
p = 0.006) were associated with therapeutic failure, while anti-TNF combotherapy 
(HR 0.17, 95% CI [0.40-0.71], p = 0.015) prevented it. Considering 108
therapeutic sequences, the short-term clinical response rate was 65.7%. In
multivariate analysis, male gender (OR 0.15, 95% CI [0.03-0.64], p = 0.011),
fistula with abscess (OR 0.09, 95% CI [0.01-0.77], p = 0.028) and comb sign (OR
0.23, 95% CI [0.005-0.97], p = 0.047) were associated with short-term clinical
failure.
CONCLUSION: Anti-TNF combotherapy seemed to prevent therapeutic failure, and
cross-sectional imaging should be systematically performed to help medical
management in stricturing Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4572-4 
PMID: 28401425 


101. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4573-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Hospital-Acquired Conditions Are Associated with Worse Outcomes in Crohn's
Disease-Related Hospitalizations.

Obi K(1), Hinton A(2), Sobotka L(3), Levine E(1), Conwell D(1), Zhang C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, The Ohio State
University, Wexner Medical Center, 395 W. 12th Ave, 2nd Floor, Columbus, OH,
43210, USA. (2)Division of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, The Ohio
State University, Columbus, OH, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, The Ohio State
University, Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH, USA. (4)Division of
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, The Ohio State University, Wexner
Medical Center, 395 W. 12th Ave, 2nd Floor, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA.
cheng.zhang@osumc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronically relapsing condition that
frequently requires hospitalization. In 2008, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services selected ten conditions that were deemed healthcare-acquired
conditions (HACs). Costs related to HACs are not reimbursed as they are
considered to be preventable.
AIM: To determine the prevalence and impact of HACs on hospital outcomes of
hospitalized CD patients.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study using data from the Nationwide
Inpatient Sample between 2007 and 2011 with an extended time frame between 2002
and 2013 to specifically evaluate the prevalence of HACs. CD-related
hospitalizations and HACs were identified using International Classification of
Diseases, Ninth revision, Clinical modification codes. The trend of HACs between 
2002 and 2013 was assessed using a Cochran-Armitage test. Primary outcomes,
including hospital mortality, length of stay, and hospital charges, were analyzed
using univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: The prevalence of HACs initially increased between 2002 and 2008,
remained stable between 2008 and 2011, than significantly decreased from 2011 to 
2013. CD patients with HACs had higher hospital mortality, prolonged LOS, and
higher hospital charges compared to patients without HACs.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of HACs among hospitalized CD patients initially
increased from 2002 to 2008; however, rates began to decrease between 2011 and
2013. In addition, HACs were associated with worse healthcare outcomes in
hospitalized CD patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4573-3 
PMID: 28401424 


102. Abdom Radiol (NY). 2017 Apr 11. doi: 10.1007/s00261-017-1134-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Differentiation of cancerous and inflammatory colorectal perforations using
multi-detector computed tomography.

Gong XH(1), Zhuang ZG(1), Zhu J(1), Feng Q(1), Xu JR(1), Qian LJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, No. 160 Pujian Rd. Pudong, Shanghai, 200127, People's Republic
of China. (2)Department of Radiology, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, No. 160 Pujian Rd. Pudong, Shanghai, 200127,
People's Republic of China. dearqlj@hotmail.com.

PURPOSE: To determine reliable CT features to distinguish cancerous from
inflammatory colorectal perforations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 43 patients with surgically and pathologically 
confirmed colorectal perforation caused by either colorectal cancer (n =27) or an
inflammatory conditions (n = 16) were identified. Two radiologists independently 
assessed the contrast-enhanced CT features for locations of perforation, mural
configurations, soft-tissue alterations, lymphadenopathy, and metastases.
Intergroup comparisons for univariate analysis were performed using Fisher's
exact test or chi-square test for categorical data and Mann-Whitney test for
numeric data. Stepwise logistic regression analysis was conducted with features
that were found significant under the univariate analysis. Interobserver
agreement was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and kappa
test.
RESULTS: Maximal mural thickness >1.39 cm (sensitivity, 100%; specificity,
68.75%), luminal mass or shoulder formation (sensitivity, 88.89%; specificity,
68.75%), absence of diverticula (sensitivity, 96.30%; specificity, 50.00%),
irregular mural thickening (sensitivity, 92.59%; specificity, 81.25%),
lymphadenopathy (sensitivity, 40.74%; specificity, 93.75%), and metastases
(sensitivity, 25.93%; specificity, 100%) were significantly frequent in cancerous
perforations. The maximal mural thickness (P = 0.0493, odds ratio = 439.83) and
irregular mural thickening (P = 0.0343, odds ratio = 4.69) were identified as the
highly distinguished identifiers.
CONCLUSIONS: The CT manifestations of cancerous and inflammatory colorectal
perforations overlap. Definitive diagnosis is not always possible with imaging
alone. The maximal mural thickness >1.39 cm and irregular configuration of the
thickened bowel wall were the two highly statistically significant CT features
that may help order the difference between the two entities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-017-1134-3 
PMID: 28401282 


103. Pediatr Gastroenterol Hepatol Nutr. 2017 Mar;20(1):41-46. doi:
10.5223/pghn.2017.20.1.41. Epub 2017 Mar 27.

Effect of the Baseline Vitamin D Level on Growth Outcome in Pediatric Crohn
Disease.

Lee EJ(1), Moon JS(1), Ko JS(1), Yang HR(1), Jang JY(1), Kim JW(1), Lee KJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Vitamin D deficiency is common in Crohn disease (CD). The aim of the
study was to examine the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency and evaluate the
association between vitamin D status and growth outcome in Korean pediatric CD
patients.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, 17 children younger than 18 years old
diagnosed with CD were enrolled and their serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D (25[OH]D)
was checked between 2011 and 2015. We categorized the patients into two groups,
Group 1 and Group 2. Group 1 included patients with serum 25(OH)D levels below 10
ng/mL, and Group 2 was for patients with a 25(OH)D serum levels between 10 ng/mL 
and 30 ng/mL. The z-scores for height (Htz), weight (Wtz), and body mass index
(BMIz) were measured at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months.
RESULTS: The mean serum 25(OH)D levels of the total 65 CD patients and 17
enrolled patients were 15.64±6.9 ng/mL and 13.1±5.1 ng/mL, respectively. There
was no correlation at the beginning of the study between vitamin D level and
growth parameters (Htz, Wtz, BMIz) or other variables including laboratory data
and Pediatric Crohn Disease Activity Index. The Htz, Wtz, and BMIz in Group 1
showed no significant improvement at 6 months and 12 months follow-up. In Group
2, Wtz and BMIz showed significant improvements sustained until 12 months of
follow-up. Htz showed no significant improvement at 6 months but there was
significant improvement at 12 months.
CONCLUSION: It seems that baseline vitamin D status affects growth outcome in
pediatric CD.

DOI: 10.5223/pghn.2017.20.1.41 
PMCID: PMC5385306
PMID: 28401055 


104. Pediatr Gastroenterol Hepatol Nutr. 2017 Mar;20(1):14-21. doi:
10.5223/pghn.2017.20.1.14. Epub 2017 Mar 27.

Surgery in Pediatric Crohn's Disease: Indications, Timing and Post-Operative
Management.

Kim S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Severance Children's Hospital, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Pediatric onset Crohn's disease (CD) tends to have complicated behavior
(stricture or penetration) than elderly onset CD at diagnosis. Considering the
longer duration of the disease in pediatric patients, the accumulative chance of 
surgical treatment is higher than in adult onset CD patients. Possible operative 
indications include perianal CD, intestinal stricture or obstruction, abdominal
abscess or fistula, intestinal hemorrhage, neoplastic changes and medically
untreatable inflammation. Growth retardation is an operative indication only for 
pediatric patients. Surgery can affect a patient's clinical course, especially
for pediatric CD patient who are growing physically and mentally, so the decision
should be made by careful consideration of several factors. The complex and
diverse clinical conditions hinder development of a systemized treatment
algorithm. Therefore, timing of surgery in pediatric CD patients should be
determined with individualized approach by an experienced and well organized
multidisciplinary inflammatory bowel disease team. Best long-term outcomes will
require proactive post-operative monitoring and therapeutic modifications
according to the conditions.

DOI: 10.5223/pghn.2017.20.1.14 
PMCID: PMC5385302
PMID: 28401051 


105. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;14(5):260. doi: 10.1038/nrgastro.2017.48.
Epub 2017 Apr 12.

IBD: Risk stratification in children with Crohn's disease.

Dickson I.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2017.48 
PMID: 28400623 


106. Gastroenterology. 2017 Apr 8. pii: S0016-5085(17)35412-4. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2017.04.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of RNASET2 Gene Polymorphisms with Decreased Expression and Clinical 
Characteristics of Severity in Crohn's Disease.

Gonsky R(1), Fleshner P(1), Deem RL(1), Biener-Ramanujan E(1), Li D(1), Potdar
AA(1), Bilsborough J(1), Yang S(1), McGovern DP(1), Targan SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Widjaja Inflammatory Bowel and Immunobiology Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California. (2)Widjaja Inflammatory Bowel and
Immunobiology Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles,
California. Electronic address: Stephan.Targan@cshs.org.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Variants in the tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 15
gene (TNFSF15, also called TL1A) have been associated with risk for inflammatory 
bowel diseases (IBD). TL1A affects expression of multiple cytokines to promote
mucosal inflammation. Little is known about the TL1A-response pathways that
regulate cytokine expression. We investigated T-cell gene expression patterns to 
determine the mechanisms by which TL1A regulates cytokine production, and whether
these associate with outcomes of patients with Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: Peripheral T cells isolated from normal donors were cultured with TL1A. 
We performed gene expression profile analysis, by RNA sequencing, of subsets of
interferon gamma (IFNG)-producing and non-producing cells, purified by flow
cytometry. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis was used to identify
gene expression differences between these subsets. Ribonuclease T2 gene (RNASET2)
expression and methylation were assessed by quantitative trait loci analyses.
Clinical characteristics of patients (complications, resistance to therapy,
recurrence time) were associated with single nucleotide polymorphisms in RNASET2.
We performed motif screening to identify polymorphisms that disrupt transcription
factor binding sites. Levels of RNASET2 were knocked down with small interfering 
RNA in CD4(+) T cells and the effect on protein expression was determined by
proteomic analysis and cytokine production. Cell aggregation was measured by flow
cytometry.
RESULTS: We identified 764 genes with at least a 2-fold difference in
TL1A-mediated expression between IFNG-secreting and non-secreting T cells (P<1 x 
10(-5)). Many of these genes were located near IBD susceptibility variants.
RNASET2 was the only IBD risk-associated gene with greater than 5-fold
downregulation in the IFNG-secreting subset. RNASET2 disease risk variants were
associated with decreased expression in peripheral and mucosal tissues and DNA
hypermethylation in CD patients requiring surgical intervention. RNASET2 disease 
risk variants were associated in CD patients with more complicated disease or
resistance to therapy, defined in part by failed response to treatment, increased
length of intestinal resection, shorter time to repeat surgery, and high
Rutgeerts score (>2) in post-operative endoscopy. The RNASET2 variant rs2149092
was predicted to disrupt a consensus binding site for the transcription factor
ETS within an enhancer region. Expression of RNASET2 correlated with expression
of ETS. RNASET2 knockdown in T cells increased expression of IFNG and ICAM1 and
induced T cells aggregation. A blocking antibody against LFA1, disrupting the
LFA1-ICAM1 interaction, reduced T-cell production of IFNG.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified decreased expression of RNASET2 as a component of
TL1A-mediated increase in production of IFNG and as a potential biomarker for
patients with severe CD. Further study of the role of RNASET2 in regulating
mucosal inflammation may lead to development of novel therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.04.002 
PMID: 28400196 


107. Gastroenterology. 2017 Apr 8. pii: S0016-5085(17)35411-2. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2017.04.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Autologous Mesenchymal Stem Cells, Applied in a Bioabsorbable Matrix, for
Treatment of Perianal Fistulas in Patients With Crohn's Disease'.

Dietz AB(1), Dozois EJ(2), Fletcher JG(3), Butler GW(4), Radel D(4), Lightner
AL(2), Dave M(5), Friton J(6), Nair A(7), Camilleri ET(8), Dudakovic A(8), van
Wijnen AJ(8), Faubion WA(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology. Electronic address:
dietz.allan@mayo.edu. (2)Department of Colon and Rectal Surgery. (3)Department of
Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. (4)Department of Laboratory Medicine 
and Pathology. (5)Division of Gastroenterology & Liver Disease; Case Western
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH,USA. (6)Division of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology. (7)Department of Biomedical Statistics and
Information. (8)Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. (9)Division 
of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Electronic address: faubion.william@mayo.edu.

In patients with Crohn's disease (CD), perianal fistulas frequently recur,
causing substantial morbidity. We performed a 12 patient, 6 month phase I trial
to determine whether autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), applied in a
bioabsorbable matrix, can heal the fistula. Fistula repair was not associated
with any serious adverse events related to MSCs or plug placement. At 6 months,
10/12 patients (83%) had complete clinical healing and radiographic markers of
response. We found placement of MSC-coated matrix fistula plugs in 12 patients
with chronic perianal fistulas to be safe and lead to clinical healing and
radiographic response in 10 patients.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.04.001 
PMID: 28400193 


108. Biologicals. 2017 Apr 8. pii: S1045-1056(17)30031-3. doi:
10.1016/j.biologicals.2017.03.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Proposal for an anti-TNF-exit strategy based on trough serum level.

Helwig U(1), Lutter F(2), Koppka N(3), Schreiber S(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Kiel, Medical Practice for Internal Medicine, Neue Donnerschweer
Str. 30, 26123 Oldenburg, Germany. Electronic address: helwig@internisten-ol.de. 
(2)University of Kiel, Medical Practice for Internal Medicine, Neue Donnerschweer
Str. 30, 26123 Oldenburg, Germany. (3)Medical Practice for Internal Medicine,
Neue Donnerschweer Str. 30, 26123 Oldenburg, Germany. (4)Department of Internal
Medicine I - Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Nutrition and Geriatric Medicine,
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Arnold-Heller-Straße 3,
24105 Kiel, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The aim of the study was to evaluate, if the strategy to
stop anti-TNF treatment after determination of low trough serum levels and
exclusion of inflammation is associated with lower relapse rates.
METHODS: Since 2013 we followed an exit strategy in patients treated with
anti-TNF treatment for inflammatory bowel disease based on trough serum levels.
The relapse rates were observed prospectively, data analysis was performed in a
retrospective manner of the collected clinical data.
RESULTS: Forty patients were enrolled, who stopped anti-TNF therapy. 13 Patients 
followed the clinical algorithm, 27 patients were used as control group (13
patients with ulcerative colitis and 14 patients with Crohn's disease). 19
patients received Infliximab, 21 Adalimumab. The median follow-up time after
discontinuation was 19 months (IQR 18). Relapses were observed in 22/40 patients 
(55%). Among the 13 patients with a targeted discontinuation of therapy based on 
the algorithm, three relapses were observed (23%), compared to 19/27 (70%) from
the non-algorithm group (OR: 7.9; 95%-CI: 1.7-36.5). Relapse-free-survival after 
anti-TNF discontinuation was significantly higher in patients treated by the
algorithm compared to the non-algorithm group (p = 0.032).
CONCLUSION: An exit strategy based on trough serum levels significantly reduces
the relapse rate.

Copyright © 2017 International Alliance for Biological Standardization. Published
by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biologicals.2017.03.002 
PMID: 28400083 


109. Sci Data. 2017 Apr 11;4:170035. doi: 10.1038/sdata.2017.35.

A geographically-diverse collection of 418 human gut microbiome pathway genome
databases.

Hahn AS(1,)(2), Altman T(3,)(4), Konwar KM(1,)(2,)(5), Hanson NW(1), Kim D(6),
Relman DA(7,)(8,)(9), Dill DL(10), Hallam SJ(1,)(2,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada. (2)Koonkie Inc., Menlo Park,
California 94025, USA. (3)Biomedical Informatics, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. (4)Whole Biome, Inc., 953 Indiana
Street, San Francisco, California 94107, USA. (5)Computer Science and Artificial 
Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA. (6)Department of Computer Science, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada. (7)Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 299 Campus
Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA. (8)Department of Medicine, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. (9)Veterans
Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.
(10)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA. (11)Ecosystem Services, Commercialization and Entrepreneurship
(ECOSCOPE), University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, 
Canada.

Advances in high-throughput sequencing are reshaping how we perceive microbial
communities inhabiting the human body, with implications for therapeutic
interventions. Several large-scale datasets derived from hundreds of human
microbiome samples sourced from multiple studies are now publicly available.
However, idiosyncratic data processing methods between studies introduce
systematic differences that confound comparative analyses. To overcome these
challenges, we developed GutCyc, a compendium of environmental pathway genome
databases (ePGDBs) constructed from 418 assembled human microbiome datasets using
MetaPathways, enabling reproducible functional metagenomic annotation. We also
generated metabolic network reconstructions for each metagenome using the Pathway
Tools software, empowering researchers and clinicians interested in visualizing
and interpreting metabolic pathways encoded by the human gut microbiome. For the 
first time, GutCyc provides consistent annotations and metabolic pathway
predictions, making possible comparative community analyses between health and
disease states in inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease, and type 2
diabetes. GutCyc data products are searchable online, or may be downloaded and
explored locally using MetaPathways and Pathway Tools.

DOI: 10.1038/sdata.2017.35 
PMCID: PMC5387927
PMID: 28398290 


110. Saudi Med J. 2017 Apr;38(4):391-395. doi: 10.15537/smj.2017.4.17855.

Assessment of Crohn's disease activity by Doppler sonography.

Na Y(1), Zhou J, Xiao XM, Zhang WX, Gao HL, Wang Y, Han XY, Sun ZC, Xu HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrasound, Weifang People's Hospital, Weifang, Shandong
Province, China. E-mail. xhm001@yeah.net.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound for evaluation
of inflammatory activity in patients with Crohn's disease (CD). Methods:
Fifty-six patients with histologically proven CD (39 with active, 17 with
inactive disease) and 30 healthy volunteers as a control group were enrolled in
the study at WeiFang People's Hospital, Weifang Province, China from October 2012
to December 2014. Bowel wall thickness, and vascularity pattern were measured by 
Doppler ultrasound. Results: There was a significant difference in flow volume of
the superior mesenteric artery (585 ± 235 ml/min) in the patients with active
disease, compared with those with inactive disease (401 ± 238 ml/min) and the
control group (390 ± 189 ml/min, p less than 0.001). Wall thickness was 5.1 ± 1.5
mm in the active CD group, 3.3 ± 1.6 mm in the inactive disease group (p less
than 0.001) and  less than 3 mm in the control group. Resistance index in the
thickened bowel wall showed some differences: 0.68 ± 0.05 in the active disease
group, 0.78 ± 0.08 in the inactive disease group, and 0.85 ± 0.07 in the control 
group (p less than 0.05). Conclusion: Doppler ultrasound is a useful diagnostic
tool in detecting CD and assessing inflammatory activity.

DOI: 10.15537/smj.2017.4.17855 
PMID: 28397945 


111. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2017 Apr 6;71(0):243-253.

The use of selected neutrophil protein plasma concentrations in the diagnosis of 
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis - a preliminary report.

Pawlica-Gosiewska D(1), Solnica B(1), Gawlik K(1), Cibor D(2), Mach T(2), Fedak
D(1), Owczarek D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostics, Chair of Clinical Biochemistry Jagiellonian
University Medical College Krakow, Poland. (2)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology and Infectious Diseases, University Hospital Krakow, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Difficulties in diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
motivate the search for new diagnostic tools, including laboratory tests. The aim
of this study was to evaluate concentrations of the neutrophil (NEU) proteins
leukocyte elastase (HLE-α1AT), lactoferrin and calprotectin as potential
biomarkers used in the diagnosis and assessment of clinical activity of Crohn's
disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC).
MATERIAL/METHODS: The study included 27 patients with CD, 33 patients with UC and
20 healthy controls. Plasma concentrations of calprotectin, lactoferrin and
HLE-α1AT were measured using ELISA.
RESULTS: In patients with CD higher concentrations of HLE-α1AT (64.3±43.1 vs.
30.1±7.7 ng/l, P<0.001), calprotectin (151.6±97.8 vs. 69.9±22.1 ng/l, P<0.001)
and lactoferrin (243.2±102.0 vs. 129.7±32.7 ng/l, P<0.001) than in the control
group were found. In patients with UC higher plasma concentrations of HLE-α1AT
(62.0±30.9 vs. 30.1±7.7 ng/l, P<0.001), calprotectin (149.6±72.3 vs. 69.9±22.1
ng/l, P<0.001) and lactoferrin (242.6±107.5 vs 129.7±32.7 ng/l, P<0.001) than in 
the control group were found. HLE-α1AT/NEU and lactoferrin/NEU ratios in patients
with UC were significantly higher compared with patients with CD. Calprotectin
(P=0.010) and lactoferrin (P=0.023) levels were higher in patients with the
active compared with inactive phase of CD.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic characteristics of plasma granulocyte protein
concentrations indicate the usefulness of these tests in the diagnosis of IBD.
Higher HLE-α1AT and lactoferrin/NEU ratios in patients with UC than with CD may
suggest the usefulness of these ratios in differential diagnostics. Plasma
calprotectin and lactoferrin levels may be useful in CD activity assessment.


PMID: 28397705 


112. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2017 Jan-Feb;26(1):149-154. doi: 10.17219/acem/61428.

Campylobacter concisus as the etiologic agent of gastrointestinal diseases.

Akutko K(1), Matusiewicz K(1).

Author information: 
(1)2nd Department and Clinic of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition,
Wroclaw Medical University, Poland.

A number of reports on the pathogenic influence of Campylobacter concisus on the 
human body and its role in many diseases of the gastrointestinal system,
including gastroesophageal reflux disease, Barrett's esophagus and inflammatory
bowel disease, have appeared lately. Campylobacter concisus is a Gram negative
bacteria which requires an anaerobic environment or microaerophilic environment
with hydrogen for growth and is therefore difficult to culture. Due to this
difficulty, the rate of infections in epidemiological data are underestimated.
There are reports that C. concisus was the only pathogen isolated from the stool 
of patients with acute diarrhea, which could indicate that it is an etiologic
factor of acute gastrointestinal infections in humans. Moreover, the results of
some studies suggest that infection with C. concisus is a factor predisposing to 
the development of gastroesophageal reflux disease and Barrett's esophagus,
conditions which may be present before the development of cancer. There are also 
studies which indicate C. concisus infection as a trigger of inflammatory bowel
disease, since it has been demonstrated that C. concisus is present more
frequently in patients with newly diagnosed Crohn's disease than in a control
group.


PMID: 28397447 


113. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2017 Jan-Feb;26(1):51-56. doi: 10.17219/acem/35802.

Evaluation of the infliximab therapy of severe form of pediatric Crohn's disease 
in Poland: Retrospective, multicenter studies.

Iwańczak BM(1), Ryżko J(2), Jankowski P(2), Sładek M(3), Wasilewska A(3),
Szczepanik M(4), Sienkiewicz E(5), Szaflarska-Popławska A(6), Więcek S(7),
Czaja-Bulsa G(8), Korczowski B(9), Maślana J(10), Iwańczak F(1), Kacperska M(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department and Clinic of Paediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Wroclaw 
Medical University, Poland. (2)Children's Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw,
Poland. (3)Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Jagiellonian
University School of Medicine, Kraków, Poland. (4)Department of Pediatric
Gastroenterology and Metabolic Disorders, Poznan University of Medical Science,
Poland. (5)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Medical
University of Warsaw, Poland. (6)Department of Pediatrics, Allergology and
Gastroenterology, Collegium Medicum, Nicolaus Copernicus University of Toruń,
Bydgoszcz, Poland. (7)Department of Pediatrics, Medical University of Silesia,
Gastroenterology Unit, Upper Silesian Child Health Care Center, Katowice, Poland.
(8)Pediatric Nursery Unit of Pomeranian Medical University, Division of
Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Reumatology of Zdroje Hospital, Szczecin,
Poland. (9)Department of Pediatrics, State Hospital, Medical College, Rzeszów,
Poland. (10)Province Children's Hospital, Kielce, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Registration of infliximab in Poland has increased chances to induce 
clinical remission and mucosal healing in the severe form of pediatric Crohn's
disease.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the results and
safety of infliximab therapy in the severe form of pediatric Crohn's disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study included 153 children with severe form of
non-fistulizing Crohn's disease treated with infliximab. The clinical activity of
Crohn's disease was assessed according to PCDAI scale, endoscopic scoring was
graded according to SES-CD, body mass was measured with body mass index (BMI).
Infliximab was administered at the dose 5 mg/kg body mass in the 0.2 and 6th
week, and then, after clinical response, every 8 for the period of 12 months.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-six children (88.89%) achieved clinical response
after induction therapy and 75.21% of children after the maintenance therapy.
39.68% of children achieved remission as graded with endoscopic scoring SES-CD.
There was a statistically significant increase in body weight following the
treatment. Side effects such as anaphylaxis, rash, and the activation of EBV
infection appeared in 9 children at the time of infliximab injection. In other
children the drug was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Induction and maintenance therapy with infliximab resulted in
clinical remission of Crohn's disease in 75.21% of children, and in the
intestinal mucosa healing in 39.68% of children.


PMID: 28397432 


114. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2017 May;19(5):21. doi: 10.1007/s11894-017-0562-0.

Modifiable Environmental Factors in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Burke KE(1), Boumitri C(2), Ananthakrishnan AN(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, USA. 
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.
aananthakrishnan@mgh.harvard.edu. (4)Massachusetts General Hospital Crohn's and
Colitis Center, 165 Cambridge Street, 9th Floor, Boston, MA, 02114, USA.
aananthakrishnan@mgh.harvard.edu.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Environmental factors may influence predisposition to develop 
inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) or alter its
natural history by modification of both the host immune response and intestinal
microbial composition. The purpose of this review is to translate such evidence
into clinical practice by a focus on interventional studies that have modified
such environmental influences to improve disease outcomes.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several environmental influences have been identified in the
recent literature including tobacco use, diet, antibiotics, vitamin D deficiency,
stress, appendectomy, and oral contraceptive use. Some risk factors have similar 
influences on both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis while others are
disease-specific or have divergent effects. Emerging epidemiologic evidence has
confirmed the association of many of these factors with incident disease using
prospective data. In addition, laboratory data has supported their mechanistic
plausibility and relevance to intestinal inflammation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-017-0562-0 
PMID: 28397132 


115. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2017 May;19(5):19. doi: 10.1007/s11894-017-0559-8.

The Evolving Evidence for Therapeutic Drug Monitoring of Monoclonal Antibodies in
Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Sheasgreen C(1), Nguyen GC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai Hospital Centre for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, University of
Toronto, Joseph and Wolf Lebovic Health Complex, 437-600 University Avenue,
Toronto, ON, M5G 1X5, Canada. (2)Mount Sinai Hospital Centre for Inflammatory
Bowel Disease, University of Toronto, Joseph and Wolf Lebovic Health Complex,
437-600 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, M5G 1X5, Canada.
geoff.nguyen@utoronto.ca.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Biological medications are effective in inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD) but adverse events, cost, and loss of response make their use
challenging. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) allows clinicians to more safely, 
effectively, and efficiently use medications. The purpose of this article is to
review and summarize the most recent literature pertaining to TDM in IBD.
RECENT FINDINGS: Measurement of biological drug trough levels predicts ongoing
patient response and can be used to titrate the medication to be more effective
and efficient. Antibodies against the medications predict loss of response and
adverse events. Using both parameters can predict response to subsequent
biologicals. Newer biologicals show similar characteristics to those more
commonly used. Management protocols using drug and antibody levels optimize
medication use and may be cost-effective. Recent evidence suggests benefit to TDM
of biologicals in IBD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-017-0559-8 
PMID: 28397129 


116. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2017 Apr 17:1-3. doi: 10.1080/1744666X.2017.1317594.
[Epub ahead of print]

Defining success in treating patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Theede K(1), Burisch J(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Gastrounit, Medical Division , Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre ,
Hvidovre , Denmark. (2)b Department of gastroenterology , North Zealand
University Hospital , Frederikssund , Denmark.

DOI: 10.1080/1744666X.2017.1317594 
PMID: 28395558 


117. Surg Technol Int. 2017 Apr 11;30. pii: sti30/830. [Epub ahead of print]

Surgical Treatment of Rectovaginal Fistula in Crohn's Disease: A Tertiary Center 
Experience.

Milito G(1), Lisi G(2), Venditti D(1), Campanelli M(3), Aronadio E(1), Grande
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Tor Vergata "PTV", Rome, Italy. 
(2)Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Borgo Roma, Verona, Italy.
(3)Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Modena, Modena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Rectovaginal fistula (RVF) is a disastrous complication of Crohn's
disease (CD) that is exceedingly difficult to treat. It is a disabling condition 
that negatively impacts a woman's quality of life. Current treatment algorithms
range from observation to medical management to the need for surgical
intervention. A wide variety of success rates have been reported for all
management options. The choice of surgical repair methods depends on various
fistula and patient characteristics, and its published success rates vary with
initial success being around 50% rising to 80% with repeated surgery. Several
surgical and sphincter sparing approaches have been described for the management 
of rectovaginal fistula, aimed to minimize the recurrence and to preserve the
continence.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study was performed for RVF repair between
2008 and 2014 in our tertiary centre at the University Hospital of Tor Vergata,
Italy. All the patients were affected by Crohn's disease and underwent surgery
for an RVF under the same senior surgeon. All patients were prospectively
evaluated.
RESULTS: All 43 patients that underwent surgery for RVF were affected by Crohn's 
disease. The median age was 43 years (range 21-53). Four different surgical
approaches were performed: drainage and seton, rectal advacenment flap (RAF),
vaginal advancement flap (VAF), transperineal approach using porcine dermal
matrix (PDM), and martius flap (MF). The median time to success was six months
(range 2-11). None of the patients were lost during the 18 months of follow-up.
The failure group rate was 19% in contrast with the healing rate group that was
81%. No demographic of disease-related factors were found to influence healing.
CONCLUSION: The case series of this study supports the dogma that "there are no
absolute rules when treating Crohn's fistula". There is no gold standard
technique; however, it is mandatory to minimize the recurrence with a sphincter
saving technique. Randomized trials are needed to find a standard surgical
approach.


PMID: 28395390 


118. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 Apr 8. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001600.
[Epub ahead of print]

A Boy with Genital Lesions in Course of Crohn's Disease.

Pavan M(1), Ferrara G, Nider S, Martelossi S, Ventura A.

Author information: 
(1)*University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy †Institute for Maternal and Child
Health - IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo" - Trieste, Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001600 
PMID: 28394847 


119. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):775-780. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001056.

Factors Associated with Fecal Incontinence in Women of Childbearing Age with
Crohn's Disease.

Brochard C(1), Siproudhis L, Levêque J, Grouin A, Mallet AL, Bretagne JF, Ropert 
A, Bouguen G.

Author information: 
(1)*Service des Maladies de l'Appareil Digestif, CHU Pontchaillou, Université de 
Rennes 1, Rennes, France;†Services d'Explorations Fonctionnelles Digestives, CHU 
Pontchaillou, Université de Rennes 1, Rennes, France;‡INSERM U991, Université de 
Rennes 1, Rennes, France;§CIC 1414, INPHY, Université de Rennes 1, Rennes,
France; and‖Service de Gynécologie et Obstétrique, CHU Pontchaillou, Université
de Rennes 1, Rennes, France.

BACKGROUND: Fecal incontinence is common in women with Crohn's disease, but
little is known about the impact of childbirth, perianal Crohn's disease, and
past surgical history on fecal incontinence.
METHODS: Self-administered questionnaires were mailed to consecutive women
referred to a tertiary gastroenterology centre with a focus on fecal incontinence
and childbirth. These data were cross-referenced with a prospective database of
the same patients' own Crohn's disease histories. Fecal incontinence was defined 
as a Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score ≥5. Factors associated with fecal
incontinence were analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 173 patients were assessed, including 113 parous women. The
prevalence of fecal incontinence was 37.5% (95% CI, 30.7-45.0). The disease
duration, a history of anal surgery for fistula, the number of childbirths per
woman and Crohn's activity were all independently associated with fecal
incontinence in a multivariate analysis model. Specifically, among the group of
parous women, fecal incontinence was associated with prior abdominal surgery,
prior anal surgery, and Crohn's activity. The mode of delivery was not
statistically associated with fecal incontinence.
CONCLUSIONS: Fecal incontinence is a significant complaint in at least one-third 
of women of childbearing age with Crohn's disease. Patients'disease and treatment
histories seem to have a comparable effect to their childbirth history concerning
the presence of fecal incontinence. Both physicians and surgeons who are involved
in the management of Crohn's disease need to keep this in mind.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001056 
PMID: 28394805 


120. Rev Med Chil. 2016 Dec;144(12):1612-1616. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872016001200014.

[Benign multicystic peritoneal mesothelioma in a patient with Crohn disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Fluxá D(1), Kronberg U(2), Lubascher J(3), O'Brien A(4), Las Heras F(5), Ibáñez
P(3), Quera R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Unidad de Coloproctología, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, Chile. (3)Servicio de
Gastroenterología, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, rquera@clc.cl.
(4)Departamento de Radiología, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, Chile.

Benign multicystic peritoneal mesothelioma is an uncommon lesion arising from the
peritoneal mesothelium. It is asymptomatic or presents with unspecific symptoms. 
Imaging techniques may reveal it, however the final diagnosis can only be made by
histopathology. Surgery is the only effective treatment considering its high
recurrence rate. We report a 19 years old male with Crohns disease. Due to
persistent abdominal pain, an abdominal magnetic resonance imaging was performed,
showing a complex cystic mass in the lower abdomen. The patient underwent surgery
and the lesion was completely resected. The pathological study reported a benign 
multicystic peritoneal mesothelioma.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872016001200014 
PMID: 28393997 


121. Curr Med Chem. 2017 Apr 6. doi: 10.2174/0929867324666170406112304. [Epub ahead of
print]

Biosimilars for the management of inflammatory bowel diseases: economic
considerations.

Gulacsi L(1), Pentek M(1), Rencz F(1), Brodszky V(1), Baji P(1), Vegh Z(2), Gecse
KB(2), Danese S(3), Peyrin-Biroulet L(4), Lakatos PL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Economics, Corvinus University of Budapest, Fővám tér 8.,
H-1093 Budapest. Hungary. (2)First Department of Medicine, Semmelweis University,
Korányi S. 2/A, H-1083 Budapest. Hungary. (3)IBD Center, Division of
Gastroenterology, Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Rozzano, Milan. Italy. 
(4)Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology, University Hospital of Nancy, Allee du 
Morvan, 54511 Vandoeuvre-l`s-Nancy . France.

Biological drugs revolutionized the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases
(IBD) such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. However, not all clinically
eligible patients have access to biologicals, due to significant costs and budget
impact. Biosimilars are highly comparable to their originator product in terms of
clinical efficacy and safety. Biosimilars are priced 15-75% lower than their
reference product, which makes them a less costly alternative and is expected to 
offer better patients access to biologicals. The total projected cost savings are
significant. If the achieved budget savings were used to cover more biological
therapy, several additional IBD patients could be treated. Currently, the main
barriers to the increasing uptake of biosimilars are the few incentives of the
key stakeholders, while physicians' and patients' skepticism towards biosimilars 
seems to be changing. Over the coming years, biosimilars are expected to gain a
growing importance in the treatment of IBD, contributing to a better access to
treatment, improving population-level health gain and sustainability of health
systems. This review summarizes the results of the literature on the economic
considerations of biosimilars in IBD and the role of biosimilar infliximab in the
treatment of IBD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867324666170406112304 
PMID: 28393687 


122. Abdom Radiol (NY). 2017 Apr 9. doi: 10.1007/s00261-017-1133-4. [Epub ahead of
print]

Shortened oral contrast preparation for improved small bowel distension at MR
enterography.

Bekendam MI(1), Puylaert CA(2), Phoa SK(2), Nio CY(2), Stoker J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.i.bekendam@amc.uva.nl. (2)Department of Radiology, Academic Medical Center,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Adequate small bowel distension in MR enterography is important for the 
evaluation of disease activity in Crohn's disease patients. While distension of
the distal small bowel can be achieved using standard oral contrast preparation, 
proximal small bowel distension remains a common impediment. The aim of this
study was to compare small bowel distension between a 60-min oral contrast
preparation and a 45-min oral contrast preparation.
METHODS: Fifty retrospectively included patients with a 60-min oral preparation
protocol and 50 prospectively included patients with a 45-min three-portion oral 
preparation protocol were included in the study. Both groups gradually ingested a
total of 1600 mL 2% Mannitol solution during the preparation time. Two observers 
independently graded distension of the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and
(neo-) terminal ileum. Total small bowel distension was calculated as the sum of 
all small bowel segment scores. Individual and averaged observer distension
scores were compared between both groups of patients using χ (2) test for ordinal
variables.
RESULTS: Significant differences in distension for one of both observers in favor
of the 45-min protocol were found for the stomach (p = 0.04), duodenum
(p = 0.02), jejunum (p = 0.02), and total small bowel (p = 0.02). When distension
scores were averaged between observers, the stomach, jejunum, and total small
bowel showed a significant difference in favor of the 45-min protocol (p = 0.04, 
0.02, and 0.02, respectively).
CONCLUSION: We advise to use a 45-min three-portion oral preparation protocol for
MR enterography for improved overall small bowel distension, proximal small bowel
distension, and especially jejunal distension.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-017-1133-4 
PMID: 28393302 


123. J Pharmacopuncture. 2017 Mar;20(1):10-17. doi: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.001.

Boswellic Acid Improves Cognitive Function in a Rat Model Through Its Antioxidant
Activity: - Neuroprotective effect of Boswellic acid.

Ebrahimpour S(1), Fazeli M(1), Mehri S(2), Taherianfard M(3), Hosseinzadeh H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Basic Sciences,
School of Veterinary Medicine, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran. (2)Pharmaceutical
Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Department of Physiology, Department of Basic Sciences, School of Veterinary
Medicine, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Boswellic acid (BA), a compound isolated from the gum-resin of
Boswellia carterii, is a pentacyclic terpenoid that is active against many
inflammatory diseases, including cancer, arthritis, chronic colitis, ulcerative
colitis, Crohn's disease, and memory impairment, but the mechanism is poorly
understood. This study investigated the effects of boswellic acid on spatial
learning and memory impairment induced by trimethyltin (TMT) in Wistar rats.
METHODS: Forty male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: Normal
group, TMT-administrated rats (8.0 mg/kg, Intraperitoneally, i.p.) and TMT + BA
(40, 80 and 160 mg/kg, i.p.)-administrated rats. BA was used daily for 21 days.
To evaluate the cognitive improving of BA, we performed the Morris water maze
test. Moreover, to investigate the neuroprotective effect of BA, we determined
the acetylcholinesterase (AchE) activity, the malondialdehyde (MDA) level as a
marker of lipid peroxidation, and the glutathione (GSH) content in the cerebral
cortex.
RESULTS: Treatment with TMT impaired learning and memory, and treatment with BA
at a dose of 160 mg/kg produced a significant improvement in learning and memory 
abilities in the water maze tasks. Consistent with behavioral data, the activity 
of AChE was significantly increased in the TMT-injected rats compared to the
control group (P < 0.01) whereas all groups treated with BA presented a more
significant inhibitory effect against AChE than the TMT-injected animals. In
addition, TMT reduced the GSH content and increased the MDA level in the cerebral
cortex as compared to the control group) P < 0.01). On the other hand, treatment 
with BA at 160 mg/kg slightly increased the GSH content and reduced the MDA level
in comparison to the TMT-administered group (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The above results suggest that the effect of BA in improving the
cognitive function may be mediated through its antioxidant activity.

DOI: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.001 
PMCID: PMC5374333
PMID: 28392957 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that
there are no conflicts of interest.


124. Mediators Inflamm. 2017;2017:6869259. doi: 10.1155/2017/6869259. Epub 2017 Mar
14.

Roles of Dietary Amino Acids and Their Metabolites in Pathogenesis of
Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Bao X(1), Feng Z(2), Yao J(3), Li T(4), Yin Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University,
Changsha, Hunan 410128, China; Key Laboratory of Agro-Ecological Processes in
Subtropical Region, Institute of Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Hunan 410125, China; National Engineering Laboratory for Pollution
Control and Waste Utilization in Livestock and Poultry Production, Hunan 410125, 
China; Hunan Provincial Engineering Research Center for Healthy Livestock and
Poultry Production, Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Animal
Nutrition and Feed Science in South-Central, Ministry of Agriculture, Changsha,
Hunan 410125, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Agro-Ecological Processes in
Subtropical Region, Institute of Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Hunan 410125, China; National Engineering Laboratory for Pollution
Control and Waste Utilization in Livestock and Poultry Production, Hunan 410125, 
China; Hunan Provincial Engineering Research Center for Healthy Livestock and
Poultry Production, Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Animal
Nutrition and Feed Science in South-Central, Ministry of Agriculture, Changsha,
Hunan 410125, China; Hunan Co-Innovation Center of Animal Production Safety,
CICAPS, Changsha 410128, China. (3)Guangdong Wangda Group Academician Workstation
for Clean Feed Technology Research and Development in Swine, Guangdong Wangda
Group Co., Ltd., Guangzhou, Guangdong 510663, China. (4)College of Animal Science
and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University, Changsha, Hunan 410128, China; Key 
Laboratory of Agro-Ecological Processes in Subtropical Region, Institute of
Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hunan 410125, China;
National Engineering Laboratory for Pollution Control and Waste Utilization in
Livestock and Poultry Production, Hunan 410125, China; Hunan Provincial
Engineering Research Center for Healthy Livestock and Poultry Production,
Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Animal Nutrition and Feed
Science in South-Central, Ministry of Agriculture, Changsha, Hunan 410125, China;
Hunan Co-Innovation Center of Animal Production Safety, CICAPS, Changsha 410128, 
China.

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is a kind of chronic inflammation, which has
increasing incidence and prevalence in recent years. IBD mainly divides into
Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). It is hard to cure IBD
completely, and novel therapies are urgently needed. Amino acids (AAs) and their 
metabolites are regarded as important nutrients for humans and animals and also
play an important role in IBD amelioration. In the present study, the potential
protective effects of AAs and their metabolites on IBD had been summarized with
the objective to provide insights into IBD moderating using dietary AAs and their
metabolites as a potential adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/6869259 
PMCID: PMC5368367
PMID: 28392631 


125. Phys Med. 2017 Apr 5. pii: S1120-1797(17)30072-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.03.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Does clinical indication play a role in CT radiation dose in pediatric patients?

Triantopoulou S(1), Tsapaki V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Konstantopoulio General Hospital-Agia Olga, Agias Olgas 3, Nea Ionia, 142 33
Athens, Greece. Electronic address: iro.trnt@gmail.com. (2)Konstantopoulio
General Hospital-Agia Olga, Agias Olgas 3, Nea Ionia, 142 33 Athens, Greece.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to identify the main pathologies for which
CT is applied on pediatric patients and the related radiation doses as reported
in the literature in order to facilitate justification and CT optimization.
METHODS: A critical analysis of a literature review was performed. Different
search engines were used such as PubMed, Google Scholar and Science Direct.
Various terms and keywords were used to locate pertinent articles such as
Pediatric, Computed tomography, Radiation Dose, Organ dose, Effective dose.
RESULTS: The results showed that the main pathologies for which CT is applied
are: Crohn's disease, hydrocephalus, cystic fibrosis and pediatric
malignancies-mainly lymphoma. The related radiation dose data are extremely
scarce and are in the range of 3.48-17.56, 0.2-15.3mSv, 0.14-6.20mSv, and
2.8-518.0mSv, respectively. The radiation doses reported are high especially in
pediatric oncology.
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric patients with malignancies are those exposed to the higher
levels of radiation during CT imaging. Literature is lacking reporting of dose in
Pediatric CT imaging. More studies need to be realized for the determination of
radiation dose in those patients. Special protocols need to be recommended in
order to reduce the exposure of children in radiation.

Copyright © 2017 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by Elsevier
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.03.014 
PMID: 28391959 


126. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 8. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4568-0. [Epub ahead of print]

Serum Cyclophilin A Correlates with Increased Tissue MMP-9 in Patients with
Ulcerative Colitis, but Not with Crohn's Disease.

Piechota-Polanczyk A(1,)(2), Włodarczyk M(3,)(4), Sobolewska-Włodarczyk A(3,)(5),
Jonakowski M(3), Pilarczyk A(3), Stec-Michalska K(5), Wiśniewska-Jarosińska M(5),
Fichna J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz,
Lodz, Poland. piechota.aleksandra@gmail.com. (2)Department of Medical
Biotechnology, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Biotechnology,
Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 7, 30-387, Kraków, Poland.
piechota.aleksandra@gmail.com. (3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of
Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland. (4)Department of General and 
Colorectal Surgery, Faculty of Military Medicine, Medical University of Lodz,
Lodz, Poland. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Military Medicine,
Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Cyclophilin A (CyPA) is an immunomodulatory protein, high expression 
of which correlates with poor outcome of patients with inflammatory diseases.
However, its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has not been studied.
AIM: This study analyzes the correlation between cyclophilin A, matrix
metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, and tissue inhibitor of MMP (TIMP)/MMP-9 complexes in 
the inflamed and non-inflamed colon mucosa of UC and CD patients.
METHODS: Serum and biopsy specimens from inflamed and non-inflamed colonic mucosa
of 38 patients with IBD (19 with UC and 19 with CD) and 16 controls were included
in our study. We measured serum and tissue level of CyPA, and tissue level of
TNF-α, MMP-9, TIMP-1/MMP-9, and TIMP-2/MMP-9 using ELISA method.
RESULTS: Our results indicated that serum, but not tissue CyPA is increased in
UC, rather than in CD patients, compared to the control. The increase correlated 
with higher tissue concentration of MMP-9 and TNF-α, especially in the UC group. 
Moreover, we observed significantly higher level of TIMP-1/MMP-9 in UC and CD
group, which overlapped with the change in MMP-9. There was no change in
TIMP-2/MMP-9 in the analyzed groups.
CONCLUSION: The current study suggests that serum CyPA may be an independent
additional marker of IBD, especially of UC. Higher CyPA level may be followed by 
increased MMP-9 in those patients. However, further studies are necessary to
verify the role of CyPA in IBD development.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4568-0 
PMID: 28391416 


127. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 8. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4567-1. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of MiRNAs in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Cao B(1), Zhou X(1), Ma J(2), Zhou W(2), Yang W(2), Fan D(2), Hong L(3).

Author information: 
(1)The First Brigade of Student, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an,
Shaanxi Province, China. (2)State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, National
Clinical Research Center for Digestive Diseases, and Xijing Hospital of Digestive
Diseases, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, China. (3)State Key
Laboratory of Cancer Biology, National Clinical Research Center for Digestive
Diseases, and Xijing Hospital of Digestive Diseases, Fourth Military Medical
University, Xi'an, China. hongliu180@126.com.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), mainly including Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis, are characterized by chronic inflammation of the
gastrointestinal tract. Despite improvements in detection, drug treatment and
surgery, the pathogenesis of IBD has not been clarified. A number of miRNAs have 
been found to be involved in the initiation, development and progression of IBD, 
and they may have the potential to be used as biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Here, we have summarized the recent advances about the roles of miRNAs in IBD and
analyzed the contribution of miRNAs to general diagnosis, differential diagnosis 
and activity judgment of IBD. Furthermore, we have also elaborated the promising 
role of miRNAs in IBD-related cancer prevention and prognosis prediction.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4567-1 
PMID: 28391412 


128. Gastroenterology. 2017 Apr 5. pii: S0016-5085(17)35401-X. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.049. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and Safety of MEDI2070, an Antibody Against Interleukin 23, Patients
With Moderate to Severe Crohn's Disease: a Phase 2a Study.

Sands BE(1), Chen J(2), Feagan BG(3), Penney M(4), Rees WA(2), Danese S(5),
Higgins PD(6), Newbold P(2), Faggioni R(7), Patra K(2), Li J(7), Klekotka P(8),
Morehouse C(2), Pulkstenis E(2), Drappa J(2), van der Merwe R(4), Gasser RA
Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Electronic address:
bruce.sands@mssm.edu. (2)MedImmune, Gaithersburg, MD. (3)Robarts Clinical Trials 
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario. (4)MedImmune, Cambridge, United
Kingdom. (5)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Milan, Italy. (6)University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (7)MedImmune, Mountain View, CA. (8)Amgen, Thousand
Oaks, CA.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: MEDI2070 is a human monoclonal antibody that selectively
inhibits interleukin 23 (IL23), a cytokine implicated in the pathogenesis of
Crohn's disease (CD). We analyzed its safety and efficacy in treatment of CD in a
phase 2a study.
METHODS: We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, study of 119 adults
with moderate to severe CD failed by treatment with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
antagonists. Patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to groups given MEDI2070 (700 
mg) or placebo intravenously at weeks 0 and 4. Patients received open-label
MEDI2070 (210 mg) subcutaneously every 4 weeks from weeks 12 to 112. The CD
Activity Index (CDAI) was used to measure disease activity.
RESULTS: The primary outcome, clinical response (either a 100-point decrease in
CDAI score from baseline or clinical remission, defined as CDAI score below 150])
at week 8 occurred in 49.2% of patients receiving MEDI2070 (n=59) compared with
26.7% receiving placebo (n=60; absolute difference, 22.5%; 95% CI, 5.6%-39.5%,
P=.010). Clinical response at week 24 occurred in 53.8% of patients who continued
to receive open-label MEDI2070 and in 57.7% of patients who had received placebo 
during the double-blind period and open-label MEDI2070 thereafter. The most
common adverse events were headache and nasopharyngitis. Higher baseline serum
concentrations of IL22, a cytokine whose expression is induced by IL23, were
associated with greater likelihood of response to MEDI2070 compared to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: In a phase 2a trial of patients with moderate to severe Crohn's
disease who had failed treatment with TNF antagonists, 8 and 24 weeks of
treatment with MEDI2070 were associated with clinical improvement.
Clinicaltrials.gov no: NCT01714726.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.049 
PMID: 28390867 


129. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Apr 7:1-7. doi: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1310288. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Factors associated with pregnancy-related knowledge in women of reproductive age 
with inflammatory bowel disease.

Lee KE(1), Jung SA(1), Yoon H(2), Park SH(3), Moon CM(1), Kim ES(4,)(5), Kim
SE(1), Yang SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine , Ewha Womans University School of Medicine 
, Seoul , Republic of Korea. (2)b Department of Internal Medicine , Seoul
National University Bundang Hospital , Seongnam , Gyeonggi-do , Republic of
Korea. (3)c Department of Gastroenterology , University of Ulsan College of
Medicine , Seoul , Republic of Korea. (4)d Department of Internal Medicine ,
Kyungpook National University School of Medicine , Daegu , Republic of Korea.
(5)e Department of Internal Medicine , Keimyung University School of Medicine ,
Daegu , Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) usually develops at a young age, and 
many women experience marriage, pregnancy, and delivery during the disease
course. We aimed to evaluate the pregnancy-related knowledge of women with IBD in
Korea and investigate the associated factors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 270 women with IBD, aged 19-45 years, from four 
tertiary hospitals in Korea were administered a questionnaire comprising 17
questions from the validated Crohn's and Colitis Pregnancy Knowledge Score
(CCPKnow) that were translated into Korean.
RESULTS: The average CCPKnow score of the 270 patients was 7.47 ± 3.07; and most 
of the patients (51.5%) exhibited a poor knowledge level. Younger age at
diagnosis, Crohn's disease rather than ulcerative colitis, longer disease
duration, anti-TNF-α medication history, higher household income, and delivery
after diagnosis were associated with an appropriate level of pregnancy-related
knowledge. Younger age at diagnosis (odds ratio [OR], 1.87; p = .036), anti-TNF-α
therapy (OR, 1.87; p = .047), and delivery while suffering from IBD (OR, 3.07;
p = .002) were independent factors affecting the pregnancy-related knowledge
level. Approximately 69.6% of patients acquired related knowledge from their
gastroenterology doctor, whereas 19.4% of patients intended to remain childless.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the
pregnancy-related knowledge of women of reproductive-age with IBD and their
perceptions by using a questionnaire in Asia. As more than half of the patients
showed a poor knowledge level of IBD, a general education program should be
conducted by gastroenterology doctors.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1310288 
PMID: 28388848 


130. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 7;12(4):e0175180. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175180.
eCollection 2017.

Functional Toll-Like Receptor (TLR)2 polymorphisms in the susceptibility to
inflammatory bowel disease.

Török HP(1), Bellon V(2,)(3,)(4), Konrad A(1), Lacher M(5), Tonenchi L(6),
Siebeck M(6), Brand S(1), De Toni EN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine II, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
(2)MINES ParisTech, PSL-Research University, CBIO-Centre for Computational
Biology, Fontainebleau, France. (3)Institut Curie, Paris,France. (4)INSERM U900, 
Paris, France. (5)Department of Pediatric Surgery, University of Leipzig,
Leipzig, Germany. (6)Department of General, Visceral, Vascular and
Transplantation Surgery, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD) suggest significant genetic overlap with complex
mycobacterial diseases like tuberculosis or leprosy. TLR variants have previously
been linked to susceptibility for mycobacterial diseases. Here we investigated
the contribution to IBD risk of two TLR2 polymorphisms, the low-prevalence
variant Arg753Gln and the GTn microsatellite repeat polymorphism in intron 2. We 
studied association with disease, possible correlations with phenotype and
gene-gene interactions.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We conducted a large study in 843 patients with
Crohn's disease, 426 patients with ulcerative colitis and 805 healthy, unrelated 
controls, all of European origin. Overall, the frequency for carriers of shorter 
GTn repeats in intron 2 of the TLR2 gene, which have previously been associated
with low TLR2 expression and high IL-10 production, was slightly elevated in
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis compared to healthy controls (16.0% resp. 
16.7% vs. 12.8%). The highest frequency of short GTn carriers was noted among IBD
patients on anti TNF-alpha therapy. However, none of these differences was
significant in the multivariate analysis. The Arg753Gln polymorphism showed no
association with any clinical subtype of IBD, including extensive colitis, for
which such an association was previously described. We found no association with 
specific phenotypic disease subgroups. Also, epistasis analysis revealed no
significant interactions between the two TLR2 variants and confirmed IBD
susceptibility genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The two functional relevant polymorphisms in TLR2, the GTn
microsatellite repeat polymorphism in intron 2 and the Arg753Gln variant do not
seem to play a role in the susceptibility to Crohn's disease or ulcerative
colitis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175180 
PMID: 28388655 


131. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Apr 6. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx046. [Epub ahead of print]

Mesenchymal Stem Cell Injections for the Treatment of Perianal Crohn's Disease:
What We've Accomplished and What We Still Need To Do.

Lightner AL(1), Faubion WA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA. 
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

Several phase I, II, and now III randomized control trials have now reported
safety and efficacy in treating perianal CD.: Perianal Crohn's disease (CD) is
found in a quarter of patients with CD and remains notoriously difficult to
treat. Several medical and surgical therapies are available. However, none are
particularly effective or reliably provide sustained remission. In addition,
surgical intervention is complicated by poor healing and the potential for
incontinence. Mesenchymal stem cell based therapies provide a promising treatment
alternative for perianal CD with demonstrated safety, improved efficacy, and a
decreased side effect profile. The aim of this review is to discusses the
outcomes of conventional treatment approaches, outcomes of mesenchymal stem cell 
therapies, considerations specific to stem cell based therapies, and future
directions for research.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx046 
PMID: 28387832 


132. Br Dent J. 2017 Apr 7;222(7):549-553. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2017.318.

The impact of inflammatory bowel disease on oral health.

Chandan JS(1), Thomas T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, B152TH.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) mainly comprises of two separate inflammatory
conditions: Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). The aetiology of
these conditions is still being explored with current evidence pointing towards a
combination of environmental and genetic components. However, the pathophysiology
is understood as a cytokine driven inflammatory response. There is significant
association between IBD and dental conditions such as dental caries, other
infections and periodontitis. Anti-inflammatory medications such as 5
aminosalicylic acid (5ASA), steroids and biological therapies are the treatment
of choice for these chronic conditions, dependent on aetiology. Therefore, this
article aims to educate dentists regarding possible implications IBD and its
treatment can have for clinical practice and future research.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2017.318 
PMID: 28387295 


133. Rev Med Liege. 2017 Jan;72(1):51-56.

[How I explore … Crohn's disease by various imaging modalities].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Desir C(1), Coimbra C(2), Decker M(2), Reenaers C(3), Van Kemseke C(3), Latour
P(3), Louis E(4), Meunier P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Service de Radiologie, CHU de Liège, Site Sart Tilman, Liège, Belgique.
(2)Service de Chirurgie Abdominale, CHU de Liège, Site Sart Tilman, Liège,
Belgique. (3)Service de Gastro-entérologie, CHU de Liège, Site Sart Tilman,
Liège, Belgique. (4)Service de Gastro-entérologie, CHU de Liège, Site Sart
Tilman,Liège, Belgique. (5)Service de Radiodiagnostic, CHU de Liège, Site du Sart
Tilman, Liège, Belgique.

Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory condition characterized by recurrent
and/or chronic lesions, leading to cumulative structural bowel damage. It is
established that the correlation between symptoms and intestinal lesions is weak.
Therefore, monitoring by frequent cross-sectional imaging is proposed to assess
the disease activity. There is no consensus about the preferred imaging option.
Priority is given to non-radiating modalities, such as ultrasonography and MRI.
Tomodensitometry will be reserved for emergency cases. Ultrasonography can be
useful, in emergency as well as for the monitoring of lesions of known
topography. Entero-MRI is henceforth considered the standard imaging technique
for the diagnosis and follow-up of Crohn's disease. Its high contrast resolution 
allows an accurate assessment of disease activity, therapeutic efficacy,
cumulative structural bowel damage and complications.

Publisher: La maladie de Crohn est une maladie inflammatoire intestinale dont les
manifestations récurrentes ou chroniques entraînent des dommages tissulaires
cumulatifs. Il est avéré que la corrélation entre la symptomatologie clinique et 
les lésions intestinales est faible. Par conséquent, des examens d’imagerie
fréquents sont nécessaires pour déterminer l’activité de la maladie. Il n’existe 
pas de consensus quant à l’utilisation de l’une ou l’autre technique. La priorité
sera donnée à des examens peu irradiants comme l’échographie et l’IRM. La
tomodensitométrie sera réservée aux situations d’urgence ou en cas de
contre-indication à l’IRM. L’échographie est un outil à ne pas négliger, tant en 
urgence que pour le suivi de lésions de topographie connue. L’entéro-IRM est
dorénavant l’examen de choix pour le diagnostic et le suivi de la maladie de
Crohn. Son excellente résolution en contraste permet d’évaluer l’activité de la
maladie, l’efficacité thérapeutique, les dommages tissulaires cumulés et la
présence de complications.

PMID: 28387079 


134. Rev Med Liege. 2017 Jan;72(1):43-44.

[Erythema nodosum : a panniculitis of diverse origins].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Piérard GE(1), Piérard-Franchimont C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Département des Sciences cliniques, Université de Liège et Service de
Dermatopathologie, CHU de Liège,site du Sart Tilman, Liège, Belgique. (2)Service 
de Dermatologie, CHU de Liège, site du Sart Tilman, Liège, Belgique.

Erythema nodosum is an acute nodular panniculitis, mainly affecting young women. 
Diverse etiologies are evoked, but the most frequent are sarcoidosis (Löfgren
syndrome), streptococcal infections, yersiniosis and inflammatory enteropathies. 
Antalgic drugs and rest are usually adequate in this condition, which is
spontaneously of favourable evolution. Treatment of the cause is open to
discussion, considering their lack of effect on the evolution of erythema
nodosum.

Publisher: L’érythème noueux est une hypodermite nodulaire aiguë atteignant
principalement la femme jeune. Ses racines biologiques sont diverses, mais le
tableau étiologique est dominé par la sarcoïdose (syndrome de Löfgren), des
infections streptococciques, la yersiniose digestive et des entéropathies
inflammatoires. Antalgiques et repos au lit sont habituellement suffisants pour
contrôler cette affection d’évolution spontanément favorable. Le traitement de la
cause est à discuter en fonction de chaque cas, en sachant qu’il sera sans effet 
sur l’évolution de l’érythème noueux.

PMID: 28387077 


135. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Apr 7. doi: 10.1111/codi.13672. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland Consensus Exercise on 
Surgical Management of Fistulating Perianal Crohn's Disease.

Lee MJ(1,)(2), Heywood N(3), Sagar PM(4), Brown SR(2), Fearnhead NS(5); ACPGBI
Perianal Crohn's disease group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Metabolism, Medical School, University of
Sheffield, UK. (2)Department of General Surgery, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals,
Sheffield, UK. (3)University Hospital South Manchester, Manchester, UK. (4)St
James University Hospital, Leeds, UK. (5)Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Management of fistulating perianal Crohn's disease (fpCD) is a
significant challenge for a colorectal surgeon. A recent survey of surgical
practice in this condition showed variation in management approaches. As a result
we set out to devise recommendations for practice for UK colorectal surgeons.
METHODS: Results from a national survey were used to devise a set of potential
consensus statements. Consultant colorectal surgeons were invited to participate 
in the exercise via the previous survey and the mailing list of the professional 
society. Iterative voting was performed on each statement using a 5-point Likert 
scale and electronic voting, with opportunity for discussion and refinement
between each vote. Consensus was defined as agreement >80%.
RESULTS: Seventeen surgeons and two patient representatives voted upon 51
statements. Consensus was achieved on 39 items. Participants advocated a patient 
centred approach by a colorectal specialist, within strong multidisciplinary
team-working. The use of anti-TNFα therapy is advocated. Where definitive
surgical techniques are considered, they should be carefully selected to avoid
adverse impact on function. Ano- and rectovaginal fistulae should be managed by
specialists in fistulating disease. Stoma or proctectomy could be discussed
earlier in a patient's treatment pathway to improve choice, as they may improve
quality of life.
DISCUSSION: This consensus provides principles and guidance for best practice in 
managing patients with fistulating perianal Crohn's Disease. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13672 
PMID: 28387062 


136. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Apr 7. doi: 10.1111/codi.13673. [Epub ahead of print]

Pouch excision: indications and outcomes.

Lightner AL(1), Dattani S(2), Dozois EJ(1), Moncrief SB(1), Pemberton JH(1),
Mathis KL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA. 
(2)Division of General Surgery, College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan.

INTRODUCTION: Resotrative proctolectomy (RPC) with Ileal-pouch anal anastomosis
(IPAA) is the procedure of choice for ulcerative colitis. Unfortunately, up to
10% of pouches will fail, requiring either reconstruction or excision. While
several series have reported on the aetiology of pouch failure, no study to date 
has focused on the postoperative complications associated with pouch excision.
METHODS: Patients who had excision of ileoanal reservoir with ileostomy (CPT code
45136) were included. Data abstracted included preoperative, operative, and
postoperative variables. A Kaplan Meier curve of pouch survival was performed.
RESULTS: 147 patients met inclusion criteria for the study. The median age of
patients was 47 years (73 female), and 132 had the diagnosis of ulcerative
colitis (UC) at the time of colectomy. The most common indications for pouch
excision were sepsis (n=46; 31%) and Crohn's disease (CD) (n=37; 25%). 84
patients (57%) experienced short term (<30 days) postoperative complications, the
most common of which was a surgical site infection (SSI) (n=32; 21%); 55 patients
(37%) had long term complications (>30 days) postoperatively, the most common of 
which was a return to the operating room (n=19; 13%) largely for perineal wounds.
Thirty day mortality was zero. 4.8%, 47.6%, 65.3%, and 84.4% of patients had
undergone pouch excision by 1, 5, 10, and 20 years from the time of pouch
construction, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Pouch excision has a high rate of both short and long term
postoperative complications. Patients should be appropriately counseled to set
expectations accordingly. In view of these findings we suggest that this
operation should ideally be performed at a high volume center with the
availability of a multi-disciplinary surgical team.
STATEMENT: This paper discusses the postoperative morbidity following pouch
excision to better inform colleagues and patients regarding their operative risk 
and set expectations. This article is protected by copyright. All rights
reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13673 
PMID: 28387059 


137. Acta Histochem Cytochem. 2017 Feb 28;50(1):21-28. doi: 10.1267/ahc.16035. Epub
2017 Feb 22.

Frequency of CD4+CD161+ T Cell and Interleukin-10 Expression in Inflammatory
Bowel Diseases.

Tsuchiya K(1), Ikeda T(1), Batmunkh B(2), Choijookhuu N(2), Ishizaki H(1),
Hotokezaka M(1), Hishikawa Y(2), Nanashima A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Miyazaki , 5200
Kihara, Kiyotake, Miyazaki 889-1692, Japan. (2)Department of Anatomy,
Histochemistry and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Miyazaki ,
5200 Kihara, Kiyotake, Miyazaki 889-1692, Japan.

Mucosal immune dysregulation associated with T cells plays a critical role in the
development of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). However, the definite
significances of these cells in IBD still remain unclear. Therefore, we
investigated the population and expression of CD4(+)CD161(+) T cells in the
colonic lamina propria mononuclear cells (LPMCs) in patients with IBD by analyses
using flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) mRNA levels
in both LPMCs and CD4(+) T cells in lamina propria (LP-CD4(+) T cells) were
measured using a real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain
reaction. IL-10 production was investigated with immunohistochemistry. The
results revealed that the population of CD4(+)CD161(+) T cells was significantly 
decreased in active ulcerative colitis (UC) compared with inactive UC (P < 0.05).
The CD4(+)CD161(+) T cell population was inversely correlated with disease
activity in patients with UC (r = -0.6326, P = 0.0055), but there was no
significant correlation in those with Crohn's disease. Over-expression of IL-10
mRNA in both LPMCs and LP-CD4(+) T cells were detected in active UC.
Immunohistochemistry revealed decreased frequency of CD161(+) cells and increased
IL-10 positive cells in active UC. The frequency of CD4(+)CD161(+) T cells and
IL-10 expression was supposed to be associated with the pathological status of
mucosal immunoregulation in IBD.

DOI: 10.1267/ahc.16035 
PMCID: PMC5374100
PMID: 28386147 


138. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2017 Apr 3. pii: S0301-5629(17)30053-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2017.01.024. [Epub ahead of print]

Differentiation of Inflammatory from Fibrotic Ileal Strictures among Patients
with Crohn's Disease through Analysis of Time-Intensity Curves Obtained after
Microbubble Contrast Agent Injection.

Quaia E(1), Gennari AG(2), van Beek EJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Edinburgh Imaging Facility, Queen's Medical Research Institute, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland. Electronic address: equaia@exseed.ed.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Radiology, Cattinara Hospital, University of Trieste, Trieste,
Italy. (3)Edinburgh Imaging Facility, Queen's Medical Research Institute,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.

The aim of the study described here was to assess whether the analysis of
time-intensity curves obtained after microbubble contrast agent injection could
differentiate inflammatory from fibrotic ileal strictures among patients with
Crohn's disease. Sixty-five consecutive patients (40 male and 25 female; mean
age ± SD, 42.2 ± 12.22 y) with stricture of the terminal ileal loop from Crohn's 
disease were scanned after microbubble injection. Time-intensity curves were
obtained from quantitative analysis, and peak enhancement, rise time, time to
peak, area under the time-intensity curve (AUC), AUC during wash-in (AUCWI) and
AUC during wash-out (AUCWO) were compared between patients with inflammatory
strictures and patients with fibrotic strictures. Inflammatory (n = 40) and
fibrotic (n = 25) strictures differed (p < 0.05) in peak enhancement, wash-in
rate, wash-in perfusion index, AUC, AUCWI and AUCWO. The quantitative analysis of
small bowel wall contrast enhancement after microbubble contrast agent injection 
may differentiate inflammatory from fibrotic ileal strictures in patients with
Crohn's disease.

Crown Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2017.01.024 
PMID: 28385471 


139. Gastroenterology. 2017 May;152(6):1616-1619. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.038.
Epub 2017 Apr 3.

Ustekinumab for Crohn's Disease.

Khanna R(1), Afif W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Western
Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.038 
PMID: 28384456 


140. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 6;12(4):e0174954. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174954.
eCollection 2017.

A rolling phenotype in Crohn's disease.

Irwin J(1,)(2,)(3), Ferguson E(1,)(3), Simms LA(1), Hanigan K(1), Carbonnel
F(4,)(5), Radford-Smith G(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Research Group, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research
Institute, Brisbane, Australia. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Brisbane, Australia. (3)School of Medicine, 
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. (4)Service de
Gastroentérologie, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Sud, site de Bicêtre Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, France. (5)CESP, Fac. de médecine-Univ. Paris-Sud,
Fac. de médecine-UVSQ, INSERM, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The Montreal classification of disease behaviour in Crohn's
disease describes progression of disease towards a stricturing and penetrating
phenotype. In the present paper, we propose an alternative representation of the 
long-term course of Crohn's disease complications, the rolling phenotype. As is
commonly observed in clinical practice, this definition allows progression to a
more severe phenotype (stricturing, penetrating) but also, regression to a less
severe behaviour (inflammatory, or remission) over time.
METHODS: All patients diagnosed with Crohn's Disease between 01/01/1994 and
01/03/2008, managed at a single centre and observed for a minimum of 5 years, had
development and resolution of all complications recorded. A rolling phenotype was
defined at each time point based on all observed complications in the three years
prior to the time point. Phenotype was defined as B1, B2, B3, or B23 (penetrating
and stenotic). The progression over time of the rolling phenotype was compared to
that of the cumulative Montreal phenotype.
RESULTS: 305 patients were observed a median of 10.0 (Intraquartile range
7.3-13.7) years. Longitudinal progression of rolling phenotype demonstrated a
consistent proportion of patients with B1 (70%), B2 (20%), B3 (5%) and B23 (5%)
phenotypes. These proportions were observed regardless of initial phenotype. In
contrast, the cumulative Montreal phenotype progressed towards a more severe
phenotype with time (B1 (39%), B2 (26%), B3(35%) at 10 years).
CONCLUSION: A rolling phenotype provides an alternative view of the longitudinal 
burden of intra-abdominal complications in Crohn's disease. From this viewpoint, 
70% of patients have durable freedom from complication over time (>3 years).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174954 
PMID: 28384331 


141. Dis Colon Rectum. 2017 May;60(5):508-513. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000000815.

Long-term Outcomes After Continent Ileostomy Creation in Patients With Crohn's
Disease.

Aytac E(1), Dietz DW, Ashburn J, Remzi FH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Crohn's disease have a higher failure rate after ileal 
pouch surgery compared with their counterparts with ulcerative colitis.
OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that risk of continent ileostomy failure can be
stratified based on the timing of Crohn's disease diagnosis and aimed to assess
long-term outcomes.
DESIGN: This was a retrospective cohort study.
SETTINGS: The investigation took place in a high-volume, specialized colorectal
surgery department.
PATIENTS: Patients with Crohn's disease who underwent continent ileostomy surgery
between 1978 and 2013 were evaluated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Functional outcomes, postoperative complications,
requirement of revision surgery, and continent ileostomy failure were analyzed.
RESULTS: There were 48 patients (14 male patients) with a median age of 33 years 
at the time of continent ileostomy creation. Crohn's disease diagnosis was before
continent ileostomy (intentional) in 15 or made in a delayed fashion at a median 
4 years after continent ileostomy in 33 patients. Median follow-up was 19 years
(range, 1-33 y) after index continent ileostomy creation. Major and minor
revisions were performed in 40 (83%) and 13 patients (27%). Complications were
fistula (n = 20), pouchitis (n = 16), valve slippage (n = 15), hernia (n = 9),
afferent limb stricture (n = 9), difficult intubation (n = 8), incontinence (n = 
7), bowel obstruction (n = 7), valve stricture (n = 5), leakage (n = 4), bleeding
(n = 3), and valve prolapse (n = 3). Median Cleveland global quality-of-life
score was 0.8. Continent ileostomy failure occurred in 22 patients (46%). Based
on Kaplan-Meier estimates, continent ileostomy survival was 48 % (95% CI,
33%-63%) at 20 years. Continent ileostomy failure was similar regardless of
timing of diagnosis of Crohn's disease (p = 0.533).
LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by its retrospective and nonrandomized
nature.
CONCLUSIONS: Outcomes of continent ileostomy in patients with Crohn's disease are
poor, regardless of the timing of diagnosis. Very careful consideration should be
given by both the surgeon and the patient before undertaking this procedure in
patients with Crohn's disease. See Video Abstract at
http://links.lww.com/DCR/A327.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000000815 
PMID: 28383450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Dis Colon Rectum. 2017 May;60(5):457-458. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000000816.

Long-term Outcomes Following Continent Ileostomy Creation in Patients With
Crohn's Disease.

Beart RW Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Los Angeles, California.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000000816 
PMID: 28383444 


143. Curr Drug Metab. 2017 Apr 6. doi: 10.2174/1389200218666170406120203. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Inflammatory Bowel Disease: new therapeutic options in the post anti-TNFα era.

Pérez MJ(1), Martín RV(2), Trillo VM(2), Gande RG(2).

Author information: 
(1)UGC de Aparato Digestivo Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga. Spain.
(2)UGC de Aparato Digestivo. Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga. Spain.

Inflammatory bowel diseasesare chronic bowel disorders the causes of which have
not been fully elucidated,though they all sharean immunological basis. They have 
an important impact on both quality of life of the patient and on healthcare
services. The incorporation of biological agents against tumour necrosis factor
(TNF) alpha some 15 years ago represented a revolution in the management of
patients with disease that did not respond to conventional treatment, enabling an
overall improvement in the quality of life of many of these patients.
Nonetheless, these agents are not effective in an appreciable percentage of
patients (primary lack of response), can lose their efficacy over time even
though they were initially effective (loss of secondary response), and can also
be burdened by varied and sometimes severe adverse effects (e.g., infusion
reactions, infections, neoplasms). Consequently, basic research over recent years
has provided us with promising new pharmacological agents aimed at targets other 
than TNF alpha (IL12/23, anti-adhesion molecules, Janus kinase inhibitors,
anti-Smad7, blockade of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors). This paper reviews
some of the key aspects of these new drugs, including their mechanism of action, 
some incipient pharmacokinetic and metabolic data, their efficacy and their
safety. These new agents will take on an important role in the coming years in
the management of patients with moderate-to-severe forms of inflammatory bowel
disease.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1389200218666170406120203 
PMID: 28382862 


144. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr 5. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4561-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of Helicobacter pylori and Crohn's Disease Incidence: An Inversion
Reaction?

Bartels LE(1), Dahlerup JF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital,
Nørrebrogade 44, 8000, Aarhus C, Denmark. larsbart@rm.dk. (2)Department of
Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital, Nørrebrogade 44,
8000, Aarhus C, Denmark.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4561-7 
PMID: 28382482 


145. Gut. 2017 Apr 5. pii: gutjnl-2017-314124. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2017-314124. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Adalimumab in Crohn's strictures--the CREOLE study.

Sonambekar AA(1), Desai DC(1), Joshi A(1), Dhoble P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, P. D. Hinduja National Hospital, Mumbai, India.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2017-314124 
PMID: 28381522 


146. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2017 Apr 5:W1-W9. doi: 10.2214/AJR.16.16575. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Endoscopic Skipping of the Terminal Ileum in Pediatric Crohn Disease.

Mansuri I(1,)(2), Fletcher JG(3), Bruining DH(4), Kolbe AB(3), Fidler JL(3),
Samuel S(5), Tung J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, 200
First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905. (2)2 Present address: Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, MA. (3)3 Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(4)4 Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(5)5 Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Nottingham University Hospitals
NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Pediatric small-bowel (SB) Crohn disease (CD) may be missed if the
terminal ileum (TI) appears normal at endoscopy and SB imaging is not performed. 
We sought to estimate the prevalence and clinical characteristics of pediatric
patients with CD and endoscopic skipping of the TI-that is, pediatric patients
with active SB or upper gut inflammation and an endoscopically normal TI.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study included pediatric patients with 
CD who underwent both CT enterography (CTE) or MR enterography (MRE) and
ileocolonoscopy within a 30-day period between July 2004 and April 2014. The
physician global assessment was used as the reference standard for SB CD
activity. Radiologists reviewed the CTE and MRE studies for inflammatory
parameters; severity, length, and multifocality of SB inflammation; and the
presence of penetrating complications.
RESULTS: Of 170 patients who underwent ileal intubation, the TI was
macroscopically normal or showed nonspecific inflammation in 73 patients (43%).
Nearly half (36/73, 49%) of the patients with normal or nonspecific findings at
ileocolonoscopy had radiologically active disease with a median length of SB
involvement of 20 cm (range, 1 to > 100 cm). Seventeen (47%) of these patients
had multifocal SB involvement and five (14%) had penetrating complications.
Overall, endoscopic TI skipping was present in 43 (59%) patients with normal or
nonspecific ileocolonoscopic findings: 20 with histologic inflammation (17 with
positive imaging findings), 14 with inflammation at imaging only, and nine with
proximal disease (upper gut, jejunum, or proximal ileum). There were no
significant differences in the clinical parameters of the patients with and those
without endoscopic TI skipping.
CONCLUSION: Ileocolonoscopy may miss SB CD in pediatric patients that is due to
isolated histologic, intramural, or proximal inflammation. Enterography is
complementary to ileocolonoscopy in the evaluation of pediatric CD.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.16.16575 
PMID: 28379745 


147. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 30. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx035. [Epub ahead of
print]

Anal Neoplasia in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: Classification Proposal,
Epidemiology, Carcinogenesis, and Risk Management Perspectives.

Wisniewski A(1,)(2), Fléjou JF(3), Siproudhis L(4), Abramowitz L(5), Svrcek M(3),
Beaugerie L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, UPMC Univ Paris 06,
Paris, France. (2)Hôpital Charles-Lemoyne and Université de Sherbrooke, Montréal,
QC, Canada. (3)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Saint-Antoine,UPMC Univ Paris,
France. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, CHU Pontchaillou, Univ Rennes, France.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Proctology, CHU Bichat, Paris, France.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease [IBD] may develop, similarly to
individuals from general population, rare cases of human papilloma virus
[HPV]-related anal canal squamous cell carcinoma [SCC] and intra-epithelial
precursor lesions, as well as very rare cases of anal canal adenocarcinoma.
Patients with chronic perianal Crohn's disease [CD] are at substantial risk of
developing SCC or adenocarcinoma from the fistula-lining epithelium, as well as
SCC or adenocarcinoma arising from chronic anorectal ulcerations or strictures.
Based on this lesion stratification, we provide in this review tailored incidence
estimates and we propose an IBD-specific classification of all types of anal
neoplasia that may occur in patients with IBD. After reviewing putative
carcinogenesis of all types of neoplasia, we conclude that HPV vaccination could 
reduce the incidence of HPV-related lesions, although an anal screening programme
related to these lesions is not mandatory on the sole basis of IBD. By contrast, 
we point out that all patients with chronic perianal CD should be explored in
depth, including biopsies under anaesthesia and fistula curettage when necessary,
in case of any change in anal symptoms ─in particular new, increasing,
unexplained pain. Finally, we conclude that there is an urgent need for
elaborating and evaluating surveillance algorithms in patients with chronic
perianal CD, in order to avoid cancers with late diagnosis and poor prognosis.

Copyright © 2017 European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by
Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx035 
PMID: 28379306 


148. Curr Drug Targets. 2017 Mar 28. doi: 10.2174/1389450118666170329095123. [Epub
ahead of print]

Can we predict disease course with clinical factors?

Vegh Z(1), Kurti Z(1), Golovics PA(1), Lakatos PL(1).

Author information: 
(1)1st Department of Medicine, Semmelweis University, H-1083 Budapest, Koranyi S.
2A. Hungary.

The disease phenotype at diagnosis and the disease course of Crohn's disease (CD)
and ulcerative colitis (UC) show remarkable heterogeneity across patients. In
recent population-based epidemiological and referral cohort studies, the
evolution of disease phenotype of CD and UC varied significantly. Most CD and
severe UC patients still requires hospitalization or surgery/colectomy during
follow-up. A change in the natural history of IBD with improved outcomes in
parallel with tailored positioning of aggressive immunomodulator and biological
therapy has been suspected according to the recently available literature.
Therefore it is of major importance to refer IBD cases at risk for adverse
disease outcomes as early during the disease course as possible. This review aims
to summarize the currently available evidence on clinical and some environmental 
predictive factors, which clinicians should evaluate in the everyday practice
together with other laboratory and imaging data to prevent disease progression,
enable a more personalized therapy, and avoid negative disease outcomes.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1389450118666170329095123 
PMID: 28378692 


149. ACG Case Rep J. 2017 Mar 29;4:e46. doi: 10.14309/crj.2017.46. eCollection 2017.

Chronic Granulomatous Disease Mimicking Colonic Crohn's Disease Successfully
Treated with Infliximab.

Peixoto A(1), Coelho R(1), Maia T(2), Sarmento A(3), Magro F(4), Macedo G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal;
WGO Porto Training Center, Porto, Portugal. (2)Department of Pathology, Centro
Hospitalar de São João, Porto, Portugal. (3)Department of Infectious Diseases,
Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal. (4)Department of Gastroenterology,
Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal; WGO Porto Training Center, Porto,
Portugal; Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; MedInUP, Center for Drug Discovery and
Innovative Medicines, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a genetically induced disease caused by
mutations in one of the components of the NADPH-oxidase in phagocytes,
characterized by life-threatening bacterial and fungal infections and granuloma
formation. Treatment includes prevention of infectious complications and
immunomodulation. However, a standard strategy is not yet defined. The authors
report an X-linked CGD female carrier who presented during adulthood with
diarrhea and colorectal ulcers, with high impairment of quality of life.
Induction with infliximab 5 mg/kg (weeks 0, 2, and 6) with infectious prophylaxis
was initiated. She continued infliximab 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks with complete
symptomatic response at 15 months.

DOI: 10.14309/crj.2017.46 
PMCID: PMC5371719
PMID: 28377934 


150. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2017 Apr;71(4):566. doi: 10.1038/ejcn.2017.16.

No association of alcohol use and the risk of ulcerative colitis or Crohn's
disease: data from a European Prospective cohort study (EPIC).

Bergmann MM, Hernandez V, Bernigau W, Boeing H, Chan SS, Luben R, Khaw KT, van
Schaik F, Oldenburg B, Bueno-de-Mesquita B, Overvad K, Palli D, Masala G,
Carbonnel F, Boutron-Ruault MC, Olsen A, Tjonneland A, Kaaks R, Katzke V, Riboli 
E, Hart AR.

DOI: 10.1038/ejcn.2017.16 
PMID: 28377581 


151. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2017 Apr 4. pii: cebp.0003.2017. doi:
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-17-0003. [Epub ahead of print]

Spectrum of immune-related conditions associated with risk of keratinocyte
cancers among elderly adults in the United States.

Yanik EL(1), Pfeiffer RM(2), Freedman DM(2), Weinstock MA(3), Cahoon EK(2), Arron
ST(4), Chaloux M(5), Connolly MK(4), Nagarajan P(6), Engels EA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Washington University
yanike@wudosis.wustl.edu. (2)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics,
National Cancer Institute. (3)Department of Dermatology and Department of
Epidemiology, Brown University. (4)Department of Dermatology, University of
California, San Francisco. (5)Information Management Services, Inc. (6)Department
of Pathology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.

Elevated keratinocyte carcinoma (KC) risk is present with several immune-related 
conditions, e.g., solid organ transplantation and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Because
many immune-related conditions are rare, their relationships with KC have not
been studied. We used Medicare claims to identify cutaneous squamous cell
carcinoma (SCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) cases in 2012, and controls
matched on sex and age. All subjects were aged 65-95 years, of white race, and
had attended ≥1 dermatologist visit in 2010-2011. Immune-related conditions were 
identified during 1999-2011 using Medicare claims. Associations were estimated
with logistic regression, with statistical significance determined after
Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. We included 258,683 SCC and
304,903 BCC cases. Of 47 immune-related conditions, 21 and 9 were associated with
increased SCC and BCC risk, respectively. We identified strongly elevated KC risk
with solid organ transplantation (SCC odds ratio [OR]=5.35; BCC OR=1.94) and
non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SCC OR=1.62; BCC OR=1.25). We identified associations with 
common conditions, e.g., rheumatoid arthritis (SCC OR=1.06, 95% confidence
interval [95%CI]=1.04-1.09) and Crohn's disease (SCC OR=1.33, 95%CI=1.27-1.39;
BCC OR=1.10, 95%CI=1.05-1.15), and rare or poorly characterized conditions, e.g.,
granulomatosis with polyangiitis (SCC OR=1.88, 95%CI=1.61-2.19), autoimmune
hepatitis (SCC OR=1.81, 95%CI=1.52-2.16), and deficiency of humoral immunity (SCC
OR=1.51, 95%CI=1.41-1.61; BCC OR=1.22, 95%CI=1.14-1.31). Most conditions were
more positively associated with SCC than BCC. Associations were generally
consistent regardless of prior KC history. Many immune-related conditions are
associated with elevated KC risk, and appear more tightly linked to SCC.
Immunosuppression or immunosuppressive treatment may increase KC risk,
particularly SCC.

Copyright ©2017, American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-17-0003 
PMID: 28377416 


152. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr 1. pii: S1542-3565(17)30392-0. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.038. [Epub ahead of print]

Healing of Tonsillar Crohn's Disease with Infliximab.

Bao B(1), Harriott M(1), Kroeker KI(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Alberta, 8440 112 Street N.W.,
Edmonton, AB, Canada. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Alberta,
8440 112 Street N.W., Edmonton, AB, Canada. Electronic address:
kkroeker@ualberta.ca.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.038 
PMID: 28377071 


153. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 27. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001099. [Epub ahead of
print]

Management of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in the Elderly Patient: Challenges and
Opportunities.

Ananthakrishnan AN(1), Donaldson T, Lasch K, Yajnik V.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; and†Takeda Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.,
Deerfield, Illinois.

The population of older patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) continues 
to grow, partly reflecting the aging global population in general. The
debilitating effects of IBD compound age-related decrements in health and
functional capacity, and make the medical management of older patients with
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis distinctly challenging to clinicians.
Here, we review the recent literature describing the pharmacologic management of 
IBD in this population, with focus on the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of
common treatment options, such as steroids, immunomodulators, tumor necrosis
factor-α antagonists, and integrin antagonists; surgical interventions in older
patients are also discussed. Few studies have systematically and prospectively
evaluated the clinical challenges in the medical management of IBD in this
patient population, leaving a limited evidence base to which clinicians can turn 
to for guidance. Treatment patterns may thus be suboptimal. For example,
prolonged steroid use in the elderly was found to be common, causing significant 
morbidity from side effects in a particularly vulnerable population. Finally,
within the context of a limited evidence base, we discuss common treatment
scenarios to define the parameters within which physicians can individualize care
for older patients with IBD. Overall, older patients with IBD are at higher risk 
of adverse events and less treatment responsiveness compared with younger
patients, underscoring the need for future studies to fully characterize
appropriate treatment courses for this population.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001099 
PMID: 28375885 


154. Pilot Feasibility Stud. 2017 Apr 3;3:17. doi: 10.1186/s40814-017-0133-z.
eCollection 2017.

Feasibility of high-intensity interval training and moderate-intensity continuous
training in adults with inactive or mildly active Crohn's disease: study protocol
for a randomised controlled trial.

Tew GA(1), Carpenter R(2), Seed M(2), Anderson S(3), Langmead L(4), Fairhurst
C(5), Bottoms L(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation, Northumbria University,
Newcastle, NE1 8ST UK. (2)School of Health, Sport and Bioscience, University of
East London, Stratford Campus, London, E15 4LZ UK. (3)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS
Foundation Trust, London, UK. (4)Digestive Diseases Clinical Academic Unit, Barts
and the London NHS Trust, London, UK. (5)York Trials Unit, University of York,
Heslington, York YO10 5DD UK. (6)Centre for Psychology and Sports Science, Life
and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, CP Snow Building, College
Lane, Hatfield, AL10 9AB UK.

BACKGROUND: Structured exercise training has been proposed as a useful adjunctive
therapy for Crohn's disease by improving immune function and psychological
health, reducing fatigue and promoting gains in muscle and bone strength.
However, the evidence for exercise in Crohn's disease is sparse, with only a
handful of small prospective trials [1, 2], with methodological limitations,
including the use of non-randomised and non-controlled study designs and small
sample sizes. Here, we describe the protocol for a study that aims to assess the 
feasibility and acceptability of two common types of exercise
training-high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and moderate-intensity
continuous training (MICT)-in adults with inactive or mildly active Crohn's
disease (CD).
METHODS: This is a randomised, controlled, assessor-blinded, feasibility trial
with three parallel groups. Forty-five adults with inactive or mildly active
Crohn's disease will be randomly assigned 1:1:1 to HIIT, MICT or usual care
control. Participants in the HIIT and MICT groups will be invited to undertake
three sessions of supervised exercise each week for 12 consecutive weeks. HIIT
sessions will consist of ten 1-min intervals of cycling exercise at 90% of peak
power output separated by 1 min of active recovery. MICT sessions will involve
30 min of continuous cycling at 35% of peak power output. Participants will be
assessed before randomisation and 13 and 26 weeks after randomisation.
Feasibility outcomes include rates of recruitment, retention and adherence.
Interviews with participants will explore the acceptability of the exercise
programmes and study procedures. Clinical/health outcomes include
cardiorespiratory fitness, body mass index, resting blood pressure, markers of
disease activity (faecal calprotectin and Crohn's Disease Activity Index) and
activated T cell cytokine profiles. Study questionnaires include the Inflammatory
Bowel Disease Quality of Life Questionnaire, EQ-5D-5L, IBD Fatigue Scale,
Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale, and International Physical Activity
Questionnaire.
DISCUSSION: This study will provide useful information on the feasibility and
acceptability of supervised exercise training in adults with inactive and mildly 
active Crohn's disease and will inform the design of a subsequent, adequately
powered, multi-centre trial.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered with the International Standard
Randomised Controlled Trial Register (ISRCTN13021107). Date registration assigned
was 02/12/2015.

DOI: 10.1186/s40814-017-0133-z 
PMCID: PMC5376686
PMID: 28373911 


155. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 21;23(11):1944-1953. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1944.

Role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease.

Iida T(1), Onodera K(1), Nakase H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tomoya Iida, Kei Onodera, Hiroshi Nakase, Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine, Hokkaido 060-8556,
Japan.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) results from a complex series of interactions
between susceptibility genes, the environment, and the immune system. Recently,
some studies provided strong evidence that the process of autophagy affects
several aspects of mucosal immune responses. Autophagy is a cellular stress
response that plays key roles in physiological processes, such as innate and
adaptive immunity, adaptation to starvation, degradation of aberrant proteins or 
organelles, antimicrobial defense, and protein secretion. Dysfunctional autophagy
is recognized as a contributing factor in many chronic inflammatory diseases,
including IBD. Autophagy plays multiple roles in IBD pathogenesis by altering
processes that include intracellular bacterial killing, antimicrobial peptide
secretion by Paneth cells, goblet cell function, proinflammatory cytokine
production by macrophages, antigen presentation by dendritic cells, and the
endoplasmic reticulum stress response in enterocytes. Recent studies have
identified susceptibility genes involved in autophagy, such as NOD2, ATG16L1, and
IRGM, and active research is ongoing all over the world. The aim of this review
is a systematic appraisal of the current literature to provide a better
understanding of the role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of IBD. Understanding 
these mechanisms will bring about new strategies for the treatment and prevention
of IBD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1944 
PMCID: PMC5360635
PMID: 28373760 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: No potential
conflicts of interest. No financial support.


156. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 21;23(11):1932-1943. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1932.

Insights on the use of biosimilars in the treatment of inflammatory bowel
disease.

Zheng MK(1), Shih DQ(1), Chen GC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Michael K Zheng, David Q Shih, F. Widjaja Foundation, Inflammatory Bowel and
Immunobiology Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA
90048, United States.

Biologic therapy, such as those that target tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
signaling, has proven to be an efficacious method of treatment for patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with regards to symptom management and mucosal
healing. However, the rising prevalence of IBD worldwide and the ever-increasing 
burden of biologic pharmaceuticals in the health care industry is alarming for
insurance companies, clinicians, and patients. The impending patent expiry and
the relatively high costs of biologics, particularly anti-TNF agents, have paved 
the way for biosimilar development for IBD. The United States Food and Drug
Administration defines a biosimilar as a biological product that is highly
similar to its reference medicinal product, with no clinically meaningful
differences in terms of safety, purity, and potency. The hope with biosimilars is
that their entry into the market will be able to drive competition between
pharmaceutical companies to reduce prices like that of the generic market, and
that access to appropriate biologic treatments for IBD patients is increased in
the long-term. Yet, there are challenging issues such as indication extrapolation
and interchangeability that are still being debated in the field of IBD and must 
be addressed in future issued guidance. This review will discuss the issues and
implications concerning the use of biosimilar therapy for IBD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1932 
PMCID: PMC5360634
PMID: 28373759 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors have 
declared that no conflict of interest exists.


157. Physiol Rep. 2017 Apr;5(7). pii: e13181. doi: 10.14814/phy2.13181.

Activation of TGF-β activated kinase 1 promotes colon mucosal pathogenesis in
inflammatory bowel disease.

Liu Z(1), Kong F(1), Vallance JE(2), Harmel-Laws E(2), Amarachintha S(2),
Steinbrecher KA(2), Rosen MJ(2), Bhattacharyya S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Center for Prevention of Preterm Birth Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati Ohio.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of
Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center University of
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio. (3)Department of Pediatrics,
Center for Prevention of Preterm Birth Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati Ohio Sandip.Bhattacharyya@cchmc.org.

The etiology and mechanisms for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are incompletely
known. Determination of new, clinically important mechanisms for intestinal
inflammation is imperative for developing effective therapies to treat IBD We
sought to define a widespread mechanism for colon mucosal inflammation via the
activation of TGF-β activated Kinase 1 (TAK1), a central regulator of cellular
inflammatory actions. Activation of TAK1 and the downstream inflammatory
signaling mediators was determined in pediatric patients with ulcerative colitis 
(UC) or Crohn's disease (CD) as well as in DSS-induced and spontaneous IBD in
mice. The role of TAK1 in facilitating intestinal inflammation in murine models
of IBD was investigated by using (5Z)-7-Oxozeaenol, a highly selective
pharmacological inhibitor of TAK1. We found hyper-activation of TAK1 in patients 
with UC or CD and in murine models of IBD Pharmacological inhibition of TAK1
prevented loss in body weight, disease activity, microscopic histopathology,
infiltration of inflammatory cells in the colon mucosa, and elevated
proinflammatory cytokine production in two murine models of IBD We demonstrated
that at the early phase of the disease activation of TAK1 is restricted in the
epithelial cells. However, at a more advanced stage of the disease, TAK1
activation predominantly occurs in nonepithelial cells, especially in
macrophages. These findings elucidate the activation of TAK1 as crucial in
promoting intestinal inflammation. Thus, the TAK1 activation pathway may
represent a suitable target to design new therapies for treating IBD in humans.

© 2017 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on
behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.14814/phy2.13181 
PMCID: PMC5392505
PMID: 28373409 


158. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2017 Apr;109(4):291.

Coloduodenal and enterocutaneous fistula in twins with Crohn´s disease.

Ballester MP(1), Martí D(1), Boscá Watts MM(2), Martín Arévalo J(3), Mínguez
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterología y Hepatología, Hospital Clínico Universitario Valencia,
España. (2)Gastroenterología y Hepatología, Hospital Clínico Universitario de
Valencia, España. (3)Cirugía General, Hospital Clínico Universitario Valencia,
España.

We present the case of a pair of 45-year-old monozygotic twins (A and B)
diagnosed with Crohn's disease (CD) at age 20 (A) and 22 (B) with similar
presenting symptoms: diarrhea, fever and weight loss. Both of them had duodenal
and ileocolonic disease (A2, L3+L4 according to Montreal classification); twin B 
also presented jejunal involvement and perianal disease (B1p). They received
treatment with antibiotics, corticosteroids, 5-ASA, azathioprine and anti-TNF
with a poor control of activity. They both developed a coloduodenal fistula that 
required surgery. Twin A developed the fistula 12 years after the first
presentation; fistula closure with duodenorraphy and ileocolonic resection with
gastrojejunostomy was performed. Twin B developed the fistula 22 years after the 
first presentation, and right colectomy, partial duodenectomy and duodenorraphy
was carried out. Both developed an enterocutaneous fistula during the
postoperative period. With intensive medical treatment, both twins remain
asymptomatic.


PMID: 28372453 


159. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Mar 29. doi: 10.1111/codi.13668. [Epub ahead of print]

Increasing experience of LIFT procedure for patients with Crohn's disease: what
have we learned?

Kamiński JP(1), Zaghiyan K(1), Fleshner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los
Angeles, California.

BACKGROUND: Ligation of the inter-sphincteric fistula tract (LIFT) has been
proposed as a treatment of trans-sphincteric fistula in perianal Crohn's disease 
(CD).
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study of patients with trans-sphincteric Crohn's
fistula tracts treated with the LIFT procedure between January 2011 and October
2015. Complete fistula healing as well as clinical outcomes were analyzed.
RESULTS: Data was available for 23 patients After a median follow-up of 23
months, LIFT site healing was 48%. Patients with healed LIFT had a median
follow-up time of 10.5 months, while patients with failed LIFT had a median
follow-up time of 31 months (p = 0.04). Median time to failure was 9 months for
patients with follow-up > 1 year. Most patients failed within one year (9/12;
75%) of the procedure. In multi-site CD, the LIFT procedure was more likely to be
successful in those with small bowel (p = 0.04) compared with colonic disease (p=
0.02). Other Factors such as pre-operative biologics use, presence of a seton
presence at operation, previous repair attempts, fistula position, type or number
of fistula, multiple fistula tracts, smoking status and associated other perianal
disease did not appear to influence LIFT healing rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The LIFT procedure offers reasonable long term success in the
treatment of perianal trans-sphincteric fistulae associated with Crohn's disease.
Patients with concurrent colonic CD are more likely to have LIFT failure compared
with patients with small bowel CD. This article is protected by copyright. All
rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13668 
PMID: 28371062 


160. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1279-1280. doi: 10.1111/apt.14020.

Editorial: infliximab trough cut-off for perianal Crohn's disease - another piece
of the therapeutic drug monitoring-guided infliximab dosing puzzle.

Mitrev N(1), Kariyawasam V(1), Leong RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Concord Hospital IBD Service, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14020 
PMID: 28370040 


161. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1284. doi: 10.1111/apt.14054.

Editorial: vedolizumab in pregnancy - is gut selectivity as good for baby as it
is for mum? Authors' reply.

Mahadevan U(1), Vermeire S(2), Lasch K(3), Abhyankar B(4), Bhayat F(4), Blake
A(4), Dubinsky M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Colitis and Crohn's Disease, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (2)University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven,
Belgium. (3)Takeda Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Deerfield, IL, USA. (4)Takeda
Development Centre Europe Ltd, London, UK. (5)Department of Pediatrics, Susan and
Leonard Feinstein IBD Clinical Center, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai,
New York, NY, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14054 
PMID: 28370036 


162. Mol Biol Evol. 2017 Mar 23. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msx102. [Epub ahead of print]

Antagonistic Coevolution of MER Tyrosine Kinase Expression and Function.

Evans AL(1), Blackburn JW(1), Taruc K(1), Kipp A(1), Dirk BS(1), Hunt NR(1), Barr
SD(1), Dikeakos JD(1), Heit B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology and the Centre for Human Immunology,
The University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.

TYRO3, AXL, and MERTK (TAM) receptors are a family of receptor tyrosine kinases
that maintain homeostasis through the clearance of apoptotic cells, and when
defective, contribute to chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as
atherosclerosis, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid
arthritis, and Crohn's disease. In addition, certain enveloped viruses utilize
TAM receptors for immune evasion and entry into host cells, with several viruses 
preferentially hijacking MERTK for these purposes. Despite the biological
importance of TAM receptors, little is understood of their recent evolution and
its impact on their function. Using evolutionary analysis of primate TAM receptor
sequences, we identified strong, recent positive selection in MERTK's signal
peptide and transmembrane domain that was absent from TYRO3 and AXL.
Reconstruction of hominid and primate ancestral MERTK sequences revealed three
nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the human MERTK signal peptide, 
with a G14C mutation resulting in a predicted non-B DNA cruciform motif,
producing a significant decrease in MERTK expression with no significant effect
on MERTK trafficking or half-life. Reconstruction of MERTK's transmembrane domain
identified three amino acid substitutions and four amino acid insertions in
humans, which led to significantly higher levels of self-clustering through the
creation of a new interaction motif. This clustering counteracted the effect of
the signal peptide mutations through enhancing MERTK avidity, whereas the lower
MERTK expression led to reduced binding of Ebola virus-like particles. The
decreased MERTK expression counterbalanced by increased avidity is consistent
with antagonistic coevolution to evade viral hijacking of MERTK.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msx102 
PMID: 28369510 


163. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 24. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx048. [Epub ahead of
print]

Vedolizumab induces long term mucosal healing in patients with Crohn's disease
and ulcerative colitis.

Noman M(1), Ferrante M(1,)(2), Bisschops R(3), De Hertogh G(2), Van den Broeck
K(1), Rans K(1), Rutgeerts PJ(1), Vermeire S(1,)(2), Van Assche G(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, KULeuven. 49 Herestraat, 3000
Leuven, Belgium +3216344225. (2)University Hospitals Leuven and TARGID, KULeuven.
49 Herestraat, 3000 Leuven, Belgium +3216344225. (3)Division of Pathology,
KULeuven. 49 Herestraat, 3000 Leuven, Belgium +3216344225.

Introduction.: Vedolizumab has proven efficacy in IBD, but long term mucosal
healing in Crohn's disease (CD), as well as the incidence of colorectal neoplasia
in IBD, among patients treated with vedolizumab have not been studied. We aimed
to document mucosal healing and to explore the risk of colorectal neoplasia with 
vedolizumab maintenance therapy.
Methods.: Surveillance colonoscopy was prospectively scheduled for patients with 
longstanding UC or CD at a tertiary referral center in the open label extension
phase (vedolizumab 300 mg IV q 4 wks) of the Gemini studies (GEMINI LTS, study
number NCT00790933). Mayo score ≤1 or ulcer disappearance (CD) was defined as
mucosal healing. Targeted biopsies were graded for inflammation and dysplasia.
Results: Of 68 patients (29 CD/39 UC) treated for ≥ 1 year (median 3.2 years,
range 1.1-6.1)), 58 (24 CD/34UC) were endoscopically surveilled. Durable
endoscopic healing corrected by non responder imputation was found in 7/24, 29%
(CD) and 17/34, 50 % (UC). Combined histological and mucosal healing was observed
in 5/24 (CD) and 11/34 (UC) of those with endoscopic healing. Low grade dysplasia
was detected in 10% of patients and high grade dysplasia in the resection
specimen of a patient with biopsy proven low grade dysplasia.
Conclusions: Long-term endoscopic and histological healing was observed in a
proportion of patients treated with vedolizumab long term. The dysplasia risk
with vedolizumab deserves further study.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx048 
PMID: 28369329 


164. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 27. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx049. [Epub ahead of
print]

Candidate serum markers in early Crohn's disease: predictors of disease course.

Smids C Md(1), Horjus Talabur Horje CS Md PhD(1), Nierkens S PhD(2), Drylewicz J 
PhD(3), Groenen MJ Md PhD(1), Wahab PJ Md PhD(1), van Lochem EG PhD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Crohn & Colitis Centre Rijnstate, Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, the Netherlands. (2)U-DAIR and Laboratory
of Translational Immunology, University Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands; and. (3)Laboratory of Translational Immunology, University Medical
Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands. (4)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, the Netherlands.

Background and Aim: More than half of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) develop 
disease complications requiring aggressive medical therapy or surgery over time. 
However, predicting disease course and treatment response remains difficult. We
therefore identified distinctive serum analytes associated with disease activity 
and course in newly diagnosed, untreated patients at presentation and during
their follow-up.
Methods: In a pilot study, a multiplex immunoassay analysis on 36 markers was
performed on serum from 20 CD patients at the time of primary diagnosis following
endoscopic evaluation. The 12 most potent markers associated with disease
activity, phenotype and course were analysed in a consecutive cohort of 66 CD
patients at diagnosis and follow-up (n=39). A healthy control group (n=20) was
included as a reference.
Results: CD patients had higher baseline levels of sTNF-R2 (P=0.001), sIL-2R
(P=0.0001) and MMP-1 (P=0.001) compared to healthy controls. Serial measurements 
revealed that these three analytes dropped statistically significant from
baseline level during remission and were high during exacerbation. Great decline 
of sTNF-R1 levels was found during remission with 6.7 fold lower levels than in
healthy controls (P=0.015). Patients that did not respond to initial prednisone
treatment had higher baseline levels of sTNF-R2 (P=0.001). Patients experiencing 
relapses during follow-up had lower baseline sTNF-R2 and VCAM levels compared to 
patients with long-lasting remission.
Conclusion: In a large cohort of newly diagnosed untreated CD patients we
identified candidate serum markers (sTNF-R1, sTNF-R2, sIL-2R and MMP-1)
associated with disease activity. Furthermore, sTNF-R2 was associated with
prednisone response and, together with VCAM, with long-lasting remission.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx049 
PMID: 28369318 


165. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 31. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001087. [Epub ahead of
print]

Predictors of Chronic Opioid Use in Newly Diagnosed Crohn's Disease.

Pauly NJ(1), Michailidis L, Kindred MG, Flomenhoft D, Lofwall MR, Walsh SL,
Talbert JC, Barrett TA.

Author information: 
(1)*University of Kentucky College of Pharmacy, Institute for Pharmaceutical
Outcomes and Policy, Lexington, Kentucky; †University of Kentucky College of
Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Lexington, Kentucky; ‡University of
Kentucky College of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, Lexington, Kentucky;
§University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Department of Digestive Diseases and
Nutrition, Lexington, Kentucky; and ‖University of Kentucky, Center on Drugs and 
Alcohol Research, Lexington, Kentucky.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Patients with Crohn's disease (CD) are often prescribed
opioids chronically to manage pain associated with their disease. However, little
evidence exists to support this practice. Here, we examine newly diagnosed
patients with CD with and without chronic opioid use (COU) and sought to identify
predictors and consequences of COU.
METHODS: A nationally representative administrative health care claims that data 
set identified newly diagnosed patients with CD. Their data were examined during 
the periods 6 months before and 2 years after diagnosis. Multivariable logistic
regression was used to assess predictors of COU at diagnosis.
RESULTS: The final study cohort consisted of 47,164 patients with CD. Of them,
3.8% were identified with new COU. Chronic opioid users were more likely women,
older, and likely who had more surgeries, endoscopies, admissions, and medication
usage compared with other patients. Features detected before CD diagnosis that
correlated with COU after diagnosis included previous opioid use (odds ratio [OR]
= 6.6), chronic pain (OR = 1.36), arthritis (OR = 1.95), and mental disorders (OR
= 1.58). Interestingly, emergency department visits before CD Dx increased the
risk of COU (OR = 1.11), whereas endoscopy reduced COU risk (OR = 0.88).
CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a nationally representative assessment of COU in
newly diagnosed patients with CD. The results may be used to determine the impact
of COU in this population and to alert clinicians to those patients with CD at
high risk of COU. Chronic opioids are consistently associated with indicators of 
more severe disease; however, additional research is needed to determine whether 
COU drives disease severity or vice versa.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001087 
PMID: 28368908 


166. Nat Med. 2017 Apr 3. doi: 10.1038/nm.4307. [Epub ahead of print]

Oncostatin M drives intestinal inflammation and predicts response to tumor
necrosis factor-neutralizing therapy in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

West NR(1,)(2), Hegazy AN(1,)(2), Owens BMJ(3), Bullers SJ(1), Linggi B(4),
Buonocore S(5), Coccia M(5), Görtz D(6), This S(2), Stockenhuber K(1,)(2), Pott
J(5), Friedrich M(1), Ryzhakov G(1), Baribaud F(4), Brodmerkel C(4), Cieluch
C(7), Rahman N(8), Müller-Newen G(6), Owens RJ(8,)(9), Kühl AA(7), Maloy KJ(5),
Plevy SE(4); Oxford IBD Cohort Investigators, Keshav S(2), Travis SPL(2), Powrie 
F(1,)(2).

Collaborators: Arancibia C, Bailey A, Barnes E, Bird-Lieberman B, Brain O, Braden
B, Collier J, East J, Howarth L, Keshav S, Klenerman P, Leedham S, Palmer R,
Powrie F, Rodrigues A, Simmons A, Sullivan P, Travis SPL, Uhlig H.

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Translational Gastroenterology Unit, Nuffield Department of Medicine,
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (3)Somerville College, University of Oxford,
Oxford, UK. (4)Janssen Research and Development, Raritan, New Jersey, USA. (5)Sir
William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (6)Institute 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(7)Medical Department, Division of Gastroenterology, Infectiology and
Rheumatology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany. (8)OPPF-UK, The
Research Complex at Harwell, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Harwell, Oxford, UK.
(9)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative 
colitis (UC), are complex chronic inflammatory conditions of the gastrointestinal
tract that are driven by perturbed cytokine pathways. Anti-tumor necrosis
factor-α (TNF) antibodies are mainstay therapies for IBD. However, up to 40% of
patients are nonresponsive to anti-TNF agents, which makes the identification of 
alternative therapeutic targets a priority. Here we show that, relative to
healthy controls, inflamed intestinal tissues from patients with IBD express high
amounts of the cytokine oncostatin M (OSM) and its receptor (OSMR), which
correlate closely with histopathological disease severity. The OSMR is expressed 
in nonhematopoietic, nonepithelial intestinal stromal cells, which respond to OSM
by producing various proinflammatory molecules, including interleukin (IL)-6, the
leukocyte adhesion factor ICAM1, and chemokines that attract neutrophils,
monocytes, and T cells. In an animal model of anti-TNF-resistant intestinal
inflammation, genetic deletion or pharmacological blockade of OSM significantly
attenuates colitis. Furthermore, according to an analysis of more than 200
patients with IBD, including two cohorts from phase 3 clinical trials of
infliximab and golimumab, high pretreatment expression of OSM is strongly
associated with failure of anti-TNF therapy. OSM is thus a potential biomarker
and therapeutic target for IBD, and has particular relevance for
anti-TNF-resistant patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nm.4307 
PMID: 28368383 


167. Med Sci (Paris). 2017 Mar;33(3):305-311. doi: 10.1051/medsci/20173303018. Epub
2017 Apr 3.

[Regulation of immunity and inflammation by autophagy: « All is well, all is
fine, all goes as well as possible»].

[Article in French]

Lapaquette P(1), Thi Thu Nguyen H(2), Faure M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Univ. Bourgogne Franche-Comté, AgroSup Dijon, PAM UMR A 02.102, F-21000 Dijon,
France. (2)Université Clermont Auvergne, M2iSH, UMR 1071 Inserm/Université
d'Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (3)CIRI, Centre international de recherche 
en infectiologie, équipe autophagie infection immunité, Inserm, U1111, Université
Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR5308, École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Univ
Lyon, 21, avenue Tony Garnier, F-69007, Lyon, France.

Autophagy is a lysosomal degradation mechanism which helps to control
intracellular infections and contributes to the regulation of innate and adaptive
immune responses. Defects in autophagy lead to exacerbated proliferation of
microorganisms and/or to excessive immune responses which are both highly
deleterious. Thus, infectious and chronic inflammatory human diseases, such as
Crohn's disease, are often associated with inappropriate modulation of autophagy,
which is mainly linked to autophagy-associated gene polymorphisms. In this
review, we highlight the current understanding of role of autophagy in infections
and immunity.

© 2017 médecine/sciences – Inserm.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20173303018 
PMID: 28367818 


168. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 29. pii: S1542-3565(17)30385-3. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.031. [Epub ahead of print]

Improved Long-term Outcomes of Patients With Inflammatory Bowel Disease Receiving
Proactive Compared With Reactive Monitoring of Serum Concentrations of
Infliximab.

Papamichael K(1), Chachu KA(2), Vajravelu R(3), Vaughn BP(4), Ni J(3), Osterman
MT(3), Cheifetz AS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases, Division of Gastroenterology,
Beth-Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina. (3)Department of Medicine,
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. (5)Center for Inflammatory Bowel
Diseases, Division of Gastroenterology, Beth-Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address:
acheifet@bidmc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Monitoring serum concentrations of tumor necrosis factor
antagonists in patients receiving these drugs as treatment for inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD), also called therapeutic drug monitoring, is performed either after
patient loss of response (reactive drug monitoring) or in patients in clinical
remission whose drug has been titrated to a target concentration (proactive drug 
monitoring). We compared long-term outcomes of patients with IBD undergoing
proactive vs reactive monitoring of serum concentrations of infliximab.
METHODS: We performed a multicenter, retrospective study of 264 consecutive
patients with IBD (167 with Crohn's disease) receiving infliximab maintenance
therapy. The subjects received proactive (n=130) or reactive (n=134) drug
monitoring, based on measurements of first infliximab concentration and
antibodies to infliximab, from September 2006 to January 2015; they were followed
through December 2015 (median time of 2.4 years). We analyzed time to treatment
failure, first IBD-related surgery or hospitalization, serious infusion reaction,
and detection of antibodies to infliximab. Treatment failure was defined as drug 
discontinuation for loss of response or serious adverse event, or need for
surgery.
RESULTS: Multiple Cox regression analysis independently associated proactive drug
monitoring, compared to reactive monitoring, with reduced risk for treatment
failure (hazard ratio [HR], 0.16, 95% CI, 0.09-0.27; P<.001), IBD-related surgery
(HR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.11-0.80; P=.017), IBD-related hospitalization (HR, 0.16; 95%
CI, 0.07-0.33; P<.001), antibodies to infliximab (HR, 0.25; 95% CI, 0.07-0.84;
P=.025), and serious infusion reaction (HR, 0.17; 95% CI, 0.04-0.78; P=.023).
CONCLUSION: In a retrospective analysis of patients with IBD receiving proactive 
vs reactive monitoring of serum concentration of infliximab, proactive monitoring
was associated with better clinical outcomes, including greater drug durability, 
less need for IBD-related surgery or hospitalization, and lower risk of
antibodies to infliximab or serious infusion reactions.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.031 
PMID: 28365486 


169. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 29. pii: S1542-3565(17)30386-5. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.032. [Epub ahead of print]

Association Between Ustekinumab Trough Concentrations and Clinical, Biomarker,
and Endoscopic Outcomes in Patients with Crohn's Disease.

Battat R(1), Kopylov U(2), Bessissow T(3), Bitton A(3), Cohen A(4), Jain A(5),
Martel M(3), Seidman E(3), Afif W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Canada;
Division of Gastroenterology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada. 
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Sheba Medical Center Tel Hashomer and Sackler 
School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. (3)Division of
Gastroenterology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada. (4)Division 
of Gastroenterology, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Canada. (5)Prometheus
Laboratories Inc. San Diego, California.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Ustekinumab, an inhibitor of the p40 subunit of interleukins
12 and 23, is an effective treatment for patients with Crohn's disease (CD).
Trough concentrations of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists and presence of 
anti-drug antibodies are associated with important clinical and endoscopic
outcomes. We investigated associations between trough concentrations of
ustekinumab and clinical, biomarker, and endoscopic outcomes of real-world
patients with CD.
METHODS: We recruited 62 patients with CD who were either refractory or
intolerant to TNF antagonists, treated with ustekinumab from April 2014 to
September 2015. Patients received 90 mg of ustekinumab subcutaneously at week
0,1,2 during induction and 90 mg every 4 or 8 weeks during maintenance. Clinical,
biomarker, and endoscopic outcomes, trough concentrations of ustekinumab and
anti-drug antibodies were assessed at both week 10 post-induction therapy and at 
week 26 or later during maintenance therapy in a prospective longitudinal patient
cohort or at week 26 or later during maintenance therapy in a cross-sectional
patient cohort. Analysis was performed on data combined from both maintenance
cohorts, which had similar outcomes at week 26 or later. A primary analysis
determined if ustekinumab drug trough concentrations were associated with
clinical response (reduction in Harvey Bradshaw Index of 3 or more), clinical
remission (Harvey Bradshaw Index of less than 5), steroid-free clinical
remission, biomarker (serum level of c-reactive protein [CRP] or level of fecal
calprotectin) reduction, biomarker normalization (serum level of c-reactive
protein [CRP] below 5 mg/L or level of fecal calprotectin below 200 ug/g),
endoscopic response (simple endoscopic score for CD reduced by 50% or more), or
endoscopic remission (simple endoscopic score for CD of 2 or less).
RESULTS: At week 26 or beyond, 80.7% of patients had a clinical response, 66.1%
were in clinical remission, 50.0% were in steroid-free clinical remission, 58.9% 
had an endoscopic response, and 19.6% were in endoscopic remission. The mean
trough concentration of ustekinumab at this timepoint was higher in patients with
an endoscopic response (4.7 ug/ml) than without (3.8 ug/ml) (P=.03). An optimal
ustekinumab threshold trough concentration at week 26 or later was found to be
4.5 ug/ml (area under the curve=0.67). A greater proportion of patients with
trough concentrations of ustekinumab above 4.5 μg/mL at week 26 or later had an
endoscopic response (75.9%) than of patients with trough concentrations below
this level (40.7%) (P=.008). Patients with trough concentrations of ustekinumab
above 4.5 μg/mL at week 26 or later also had a lower mean level of CRP (12.6
mg/L) than patients with trough concentrations below this level (mean level of
CRP, 23.9 mg/L) (P=.04). We did not detect antibodies against ustekinumab in any 
patient.
CONCLUSION: Ustekinumab therapy was effective in patients with CD who had not
responded to or were intolerant to treatment with a TNF antagonist. Maintenance
concentrations of ustekinumab trough levels above 4.5 μg/mL at 26 weeks or later 
were associated with biomarker reduction and endoscopic response.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.03.032 
PMID: 28365485 


170. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 29. pii: S2210-7401(17)30075-X. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2017.02.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Crohn's Colitis: Development of a multiplex gene expression assay comparing mRNA 
levels of susceptibility genes.

Russo E(1), Lombardelli L(2), Giudici F(3), Cavalli T(3), Ficari F(3), Fazi M(3),
Scaringi S(4), Biancone L(5), Logiodice F(2), Nesi M(6), Latiano A(7), Annese
V(8), Torcia MG(2), Bechi P(3), Tonelli F(3), Piccinni MP(2), Malentacchi C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence,
Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139 Florence, Italy. Electronic address:
edda.russo@unifi.it. (2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine,
University of Florence, Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139 Florence, Italy. (3)Department 
of Surgery and Translational Medicine (DCMT), Section of Surgery, University of
Florence, Florence, Italy. (4)Department of Surgery and Translational Medicine
(DCMT), Section of Surgery, University of Florence, Florence, Italy;
Gastroenterology Unit SOD2, AOUC Careggi, Florence, Italy. (5)Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. (6)Department of 
Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences (SBSC) "Mario Serio", University of
Florence, Florence, Italy. (7)Division of Gastroenterology, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo 
della Sofferenza" Hospital, San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy. (8)Gastroenterology Unit
SOD2, AOUC Careggi, Florence, Italy.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a multifactorial immunologically mediated disease. In
this study we explored, for the first time, the efficacy of the Multiplex Gene
Assay technology for detecting mRNA expression profile of 24 selected CD related 
genes in endoscopic biopsies and surgical specimens from CD patients with colonic
localization of the disease. The polymorphisms of genes most frequently
associated with CD were also analysed in DNA samples from the same patients. The 
analysis of endoscopic samples showed increased expression of 7 genes in inflamed
mucosa compared to non-inflamed mucosa and suggests the activation of the
autophagy process and of a Th17 adaptive response. The analysis of surgical
specimens showed increased expression of 16 genes in inflamed tissue compared to 
non-inflamed internal controls and revealed the activation of immune-adaptive
Th17 response in association with a Th1 response. Furthermore, an increased
expression of genes involved in ionic transport and signal transduction was found
in inflamed mucosa compared to non-inflamed internal controls. This study
confirms the activation of Th17 and Th1 adaptive-immune response also in colonic 
CD. It should be stressed that these responses have been disclosed in biopsy
tissue, while only Th17 differentiation is revealed in endoscopic tissue.
Interestingly, the polymorphisms analysis revealed that a homozygous genotype is 
associated to a more complicated clinical course.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2017.02.004 
PMID: 28365139 


171. Clin J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 31. doi: 10.1007/s12328-017-0737-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Mucosal healing of Crohn's disease in a patient with concurrent systemic lupus
erythematosus using infliximab.

Kagaya Y(1), Sakamoto H(1), Yano T(1), Sunada K(1), Lefor AK(2), Niki T(3),
Yamamoto H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, 3311-1 Yakushiji, Shimotsuke, Tochigi, 329-0498, Japan. (2)Department
of Surgery, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, Tochigi, Japan. (3)Department
of Integrative Pathology, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, 3311-1 Yakushiji, Shimotsuke, Tochigi, 329-0498, Japan.
ireef@jichi.ac.jp.

We describe a patient with Crohn's disease (CD) concurrent with systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE). Continuous prednisolone and cyclosporine treatment resulted 
in no recurrent symptoms. However, diarrhea, vomiting, and fever occurred for
approximately 3 months. A colonoscopy was then performed, which showed a
discontinuous cobblestone appearance and longitudinal ulcers extending from the
sigmoid colon to the descending colon and distal ileum. A biopsy revealed a
noncaseating granulomatous lesion in the colonic mucosa. These findings led to a 
diagnosis of CD concurrent with SLE. We first attempted treatment with a full
elemental diet, mesalazine, and azathioprine, in that order. However, as there
was no improvement in inflammation, we started infliximab, a tumor necrosis
factor-alpha inhibitor. Transanal double-balloon enteroscopy performed 4 months
after starting infliximab showed mucosal healing, suggesting that infliximab was 
effective. There are few reports of treating patients with CD concurrent with SLE
using a tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitor. We report our experience with a
patient who had mucosal healing with infliximab and review the literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12328-017-0737-0 
PMID: 28364315 


172. Clin Ther. 2017 Mar 28. pii: S0149-2918(17)30179-0. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.03.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical Outcomes Associated with Switching or Discontinuation from Anti-TNF
Inhibitors for Nonmedical Reasons.

Wolf D(1), Skup M(2), Yang H(3), Fang AP(3), Kageleiry A(3), Chao J(2), Mittal
M(2), Lebwohl M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Atlanta Gastroenterology Associates, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address:
m4desk@aol.com. (2)AbbVie Inc, North Chicago, Illinois. (3)Analysis Group Inc,
Boston, Massachusetts. (4)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New 
York.

PURPOSE: This study evaluated clinical outcomes and health care resource
utilization associated with nonmedical switching from or discontinuation of
anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapies in US clinical practice.
METHODS: Responding physicians extracted data from the medical charts of patients
with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing
spondylitis, psoriasis, or psoriatic arthritis who achieved response on an
anti-TNF therapy. Physicians selected 2 cohorts of patients that were matched on 
diagnosis: patients who were switched/discontinued, for nonmedical reasons, from 
the anti-TNF therapy on which they achieved response (switchers/discontinuers),
and patients who continued on their anti-TNF (continuers).
Switchers/discontinuers were followed up for 12 months from the date of
discontinuation (index date); continuers were followed up for 12 months from the 
date of an office visit within 2 months of the matched switcher/discontinuer׳s
index date. Multivariate regression was used to compare disease flares, disease
control, and health care resource utilization between cohorts, with adjustment
for baseline characteristics. Subgroup analyses compared data from the continuer 
cohort to those from (1) patients who were switched to another biologic therapy
and (2) patients who were switched to conventional therapy or discontinued from
all therapy.
FINDINGS: A total of 377 matched pairs of continuers and switchers/discontinuers 
were analyzed (N = 754), with the latter cohort comprising 284 patients (73.3%)
who were and 93 (24.7%) who did not switch to another treatment (biologic or
conventional treatment) immediately after discontinuation.
Switchers/discontinuers had more frequent flares than did continuers, across
severity levels (adjusted incidence rate ratios = 1.67, 2.36, and 3.48 for mild, 
moderate, and severe flares, respectively; all, P < 0.05).
Switchers/discontinuers had a lower rate of well-controlled disease symptoms
(46.9% vs 88.1%; adjusted odds ratio = 0.11; P < 0.001). Switchers/discontinuers 
also had more frequent inpatient hospitalizations, emergency department visits,
and outpatient visits (adjusted incidence rate ratios = 3.58, 5.73, and 1.12,
respectively; all, P < 0.001). Findings from the subgroup analyses of data from
the 183 patients who switched to a biologic therapy and 194 who switched to
conventional therapy or discontinued from all therapy were largely consistent
with the overall analysis.
IMPLICATIONS: In this study, switching/discontinuation from an anti-TNF therapy
for nonmedical reasons was associated with significantly worse clinical outcomes 
and increased health care resource utilization-factors that should be considered 
when developing treatment algorithms.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.03.005 
PMID: 28363696 


173. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 Mar 30. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001593.
[Epub ahead of print]

Increase of Intra-Abdominal Adipose Tissue in Pediatric Crohn's Disease.

Frivolt K(1), Hetterich H, Schwerd T, Hajji MS, Bufler P, Coppenrath E, Koletzko 
S.

Author information: 
(1)*Dr. von Hauner Children's Hospital, University of Munich Medical Center,
Munich, Germany †2nd Department of Pediatrics, Comenius University Medical
School, Bratislava, Slovakia ‡Institute of Clinical Radiology, Hospital of the
Ludwig-Maximilians University, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Recent evidence points towards an active immunological role of
intra-abdominal adipose tissue in Crohn's disease (CD). We quantified the
abdominal adipose tissue compartments using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in
27 pediatric CD patients compared with 14 controls undergoing MRI examination for
other reasons.
METHODS: Total (TAAT), subcutaneous (SCAT) and intra-abdominal (IAAT) adipose
tissue areas were measured by semiautomatic segmentation on a transverse slice
centered on the umbilicus (mean ± standard deviation in cm) using standard T1
weighted sequences. IAAT/TAAT and IAAT/height ratios were calculated and analyzed
for associations with disease duration, phenotype or therapy.
RESULTS: CD patients (median age 15.0 years, range 7.7-17.9, 18/27 males, median 
disease duration 29 months, range 0-136) compared to controls (median age 13.9
years, range 3.3-17.8, 4/14 males) had higher IAAT area (42.3 ± 21.0 vs.
28.7 ± 11.6, p=0.0494) but similar SCAT and TAAT areas (104.6 ± 72.8 vs.
96.5 ± 50.8, p = 0.8170 and 146.9 ± 87.3 vs. 125.3 ± 61.5, p = 0.7417,
respectively). IAAT/TAAT ratio was higher in CD patients compared to controls
(0.32 ± 0.10 vs. 0.24 ± 0.04, p = 0.0081). Patients with disease duration over 2 
years (n = 14) had higher IAAT/TAAT ratio than those with shorter disease and
controls (0.35 ± 0.10 vs. 0.28 ± 0.08, p = 0.0288 and 0.24 ± 0.04, p = 0.0009,
respectively). In these patients increased IAAT/height ratio was associated with 
complicated disease (p = 0.043, r = 0.573). No association was found between
IAAT/TAAT ratio and actual disease activity or therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: IAAT is increased in pediatric CD and correlates with disease
duration. Assessment of IAAT accumulation may be considered in future MRI scores 
for inflammation and bowel damage in CD and during follow-up of different
therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001593 
PMID: 28362691 


174. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 Mar 30. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001484.
[Epub ahead of print]

Perianal Pediatric Crohn's Disease is Associated With A Distinct Phenotype and
Greater Inflammatory Burden.

Assa A(1), Amitai M, Greer ML, Castro DA, Kuint RC, Martínez-León M,
Herman-Sucharska I, Coppenrath E, Anupindi S, Towbin A, Moote D, Konen O, Pratt
LT, Griffiths A, Turner D; ImageKids study group.

Author information: 
(1)*Institute of Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Disease, Schneider
Children's Hospital, Petach-Tikva, Israel, Affiliated to the Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel †Department of Radiology, Sheba
Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel ‡Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Hospital 
for Sick Children / Department of Medical Imaging, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada §Pediatric Radiology Unit, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, 
Jerusalem, Israel ||Department of Radiology, Hospital Regional Universitario
Carlos Haya, Malaga, Spain ¶Electroradiology Department, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Collegium Medicum, Jagiellonian University in Cracow, Poland
#Department of Radiology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany **Department of
Radiology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia Pennsylvania,
USA ††Department of Radiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
USA ‡‡Department of Radiology, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Hartford,
Connecticut, USA §§Department of Radiology, Schneider Children's Hospital,
Petach-Tikva, Israel ||||Diagnostic Imaging Division, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical
Center, Tel Aviv, Israel ¶¶Division of Gastroenterology, Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada ##Institute of Gastroenterology, Nutrition and
Liver Disease, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Data on the outcomes of children with perianal Crohn's disease (pCD) 
are limited, although its presence is often used for justifying early use of
biologics. We aimed to assess whether pCD in children is associated with more
severe outcomes as found in adults.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the ImageKids database, a prospective,
multicenter, longitudinal cohort study. The study enrolled 246 children at
disease onset or thereafter. All patients underwent comprehensive clinical,
endoscopic, and radiologic evaluation at enrollment; 98 children had repeat
evaluation at 18 months.
RESULTS: Of the 234 included patients [mean age 14.2 ± 2.4 years; 131 (56%)
males], 57 (24%) had perianal findings while only 21 (9%) had fistulizing
perianal disease. Children with pCD had reduced weight and height z-scores
compared with non-pCD patients (-0.9 vs. -0.35, p = 0.03 and -0.68 vs. -0.23,
respectively; p = 0.04), higher weighted pediatric Crohn's disease activity index
[32 (IQR 16-50) vs. 20 (8-37); p = 0.004], lower serum albumin (3.6 ± 0.7 vs.
4.5 ± 0.8, P = 0.016) and higher magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) global
inflammatory score (P = 0.04). Children with pCD had more rectal (57% vs. 38%,
p = 0.04), and jejunal involvement (31% vs. 11% p = 0.003) and a higher
prevalence of granulomas (64% vs. 23%, p = 0.0001). MRE-based damage scores did
not differ between groups. Patients with skin tags/fissures only, had similar
clinical, endoscopic and radiologic characteristics as patients with no perianal 
findings.
CONCLUSION: Pediatric pCD patients with fistulizing disease have distinct
phenotypic features and a predisposition to a greater inflammatory burden.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001484 
PMID: 28362690 


175. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Jun - Jul;52(6-7):730-737. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1307444. Epub 2017 Mar 31.

Solar radiation is inversely associated with inflammatory bowel disease
admissions.

Jaime F(1), Riutort MC(1), Alvarez-Lobos M(2), Hoyos-Bachiloglu R(3), Camargo CA 
Jr(4), Borzutzky A(3,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition , School of Medicine,
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile , Santiago , Chile. (2)b Department of
Gastroenterology , School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile ,
Santiago , Chile. (3)c Department of Pediatric Infectious Diseases and Immunology
, School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile , Santiago ,
Chile. (4)d Department of Emergency Medicine and Division of Rheumatology,
Allergy, and Immunology, Department of Medicine , Massachusetts General Hospital,
Harvard Medical School , Boston , MA , USA. (5)e Millennium Institute on
Immunology and Immunotherapy , School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile , Santiago , Chile.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the associations between latitude and solar radiation with 
inflammatory bowel disease admission rates in Chile, the country with the largest
variation in solar radiation in the world.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is an ecological study, which included data on all
hospital-admitted population for inflammatory bowel disease between 2001 and
2012, according to different latitudes and solar radiation exposures in Chile.
The data were acquired from the national hospital discharge database from the
Department of Health Statistics and Information of the Chilean Ministry of
Health.
RESULTS: Between 2001 and 2012 there were 12,869 admissions due to inflammatory
bowel disease (69% ulcerative colitis, 31% Crohn's disease). Median age was 36
years (IQR: 25-51); 57% were female. The national inflammatory bowel disease
admission rate was 6.52 (95% CI: 6.40-6.63) per 100,000 inhabitants with
increasing rates over the 12-year period. In terms of latitude, the highest
admission rates for pediatric ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, as well as 
adult ulcerative colitis, were observed in the southernmost region with lowest
annual solar radiation. Linear regression analysis showed that regional solar
radiation was inversely associated with inflammatory bowel disease admissions in 
Chile (β: -.44, p = .03).
CONCLUSIONS: Regional solar radiation was inversely associated with inflammatory 
bowel disease admission rates in Chile; inflammatory bowel disease admissions
were highest in the southernmost region with lowest solar radiation. Our results 
support the potential role of vitamin D deficiency on inflammatory bowel disease 
flares.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1307444 
PMID: 28362210 


176. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Jun - Jul;52(6-7):722-729. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1304987. Epub 2017 Mar 31.

Long-term effectiveness of vedolizumab in inflammatory bowel disease: a national 
study based on the Swedish National Quality Registry for Inflammatory Bowel
Disease (SWIBREG).

Eriksson C(1), Marsal J(2,)(3), Bergemalm D(1), Vigren L(4), Björk J(5),
Eberhardson M(5), Karling P(6), Söderman C(7); SWIBREG Vedolizumab Study Group,
Myrelid P(8), Cao Y(9,)(10), Sjöberg D(11), Thörn M(12), Karlén P(13), Hertervig 
E(3), Strid H(14), Ludvigsson JF(10,)(15), Almer S(5), Halfvarson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine and Health , Örebro
University , Örebro , Sweden. (2)b Immunology Section , Lund University , Lund , 
Sweden. (3)c Department of Gastroenterology , Skåne University Hospital , Lund , 
Sweden. (4)d Department of Internal Medicine , Ystad Hospital , Ystad , Sweden.
(5)e Department of Medicine , Center for Digestive Diseases, Karolinska
University Hospital , Karolinska Institutet , Solna , Stockholm , Sweden. (6)f
Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine , Umeå University , Umeå ,
Sweden. (7)g Department of Internal Medicine , St Göran Hospital , Stockholm ,
Sweden. (8)h Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Linköping
University and Department of Surgery , Linköping University Hospital , Linköping 
, Sweden. (9)i Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of
Medical Sciences , Örebro University , Örebro , Sweden. (10)j Department of
Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics , Karolinska Institutet , Stockholm ,
Sweden. (11)k Center for Clinical Research Dalarna , Uppsala University , Falun ,
Sweden. (12)l Department of Medical Sciences, Section of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology , Uppsala University , Uppsala , Sweden. (13)m Department of Internal 
Medicine , Danderyd Hospital , Stockholm , Sweden. (14)n Department of Internal
Medicine , Södra Älvsborgs Sjukhus , Borås , Sweden. (15)o Department of
Pediatrics , Örebro University Hospital , Örebro , Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: Clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy of vedolizumab in
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, these findings may not reflect the
clinical practice. Therefore, we aimed to describe a vedolizumab-treated patient 
population and assess long-term effectiveness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients initiating vedolizumab between 1 June 2014 and 30
May 2015 were identified through the Swedish National Quality Registry for IBD.
Prospectively collected data on treatment and disease activity were extracted.
Clinical remission was defined as Patient Harvey Bradshaw index <5 in Crohn's
disease (CD) and Patient Simple Clinical Colitis Activity index <3 in ulcerative 
colitis (UC).
RESULTS: Two-hundred forty-six patients (147 CD, 92 UC and 7 IBD-Unclassified)
were included. On study entry, 86% had failed TNF-antagonist and 48% of the CD
patients had undergone ≥1 surgical resection. After a median follow-up of 17
(IQR: 14-20) months, 142 (58%) patients remained on vedolizumab. In total, 54% of
the CD- and 64% of the UC patients were in clinical remission at the end of
follow-up, with the clinical activity decreasing (p < .0001 in both groups).
Faecal-calprotectin decreased in CD (p < .0001) and in UC (p = .001), whereas CRP
decreased in CD (p = .002) but not in UC (p = .11). Previous anti-TNF exposure
(adjusted HR: 4.03; 95% CI: 0.96-16.75) and elevated CRP at baseline (adjusted
HR: 2.22; 95% CI: 1.10-4.35) seemed to be associated with discontinuation because
of lack of response. Female sex was associated with termination because of
intolerance (adjusted HR: 2.75; 95% CI: 1.16-6.48).
CONCLUSION: Vedolizumab-treated patients represent a treatment-refractory group. 
A long-term effect can be achieved, even beyond 1 year of treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1304987 
PMID: 28362144 


177. Indian J Med Res. 2016 Nov;144(5):661-671. doi: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_1401_14.

Current status of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis infection in
animals & humans in India: What needs to be done?

Singh AV(1), Chauhan DS(1), Singh SV(2), Kumar V(3), Singh A(1), Yadav A(1),
Yadav VS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, National JALMA Institute for
Leprosy & Other Mycobacterial Diseases, Agra, India. (2)Animal Health Division,
Central Institute for Research on Goats, Mathura, India. (3)Department of
Biotechnology, Institute of Biomedical Education & Research, Mangalayatan
University, Aligarh, India.

Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) has emerged as a major
health problem for domestic livestock and human beings. Reduced per animal
productivity of domestic livestock seriously impacts the economics of dairy
farming globally. High to very high bioload of MAP in domestic livestock and also
in the human population has been reported from north India. Presence of live MAP 
bacilli in commercial supplies of raw and pasteurized milk and milk products
indicates its public health significance. MAP is not inactivated during
pasteurization, therefore, entering into human food chain daily. Recovery of MAP 
from patients with inflammatory bowel disease or Crohn's disease and animal
healthcare workers suffering with chronic gastrointestinal problems indicate a
close association of MAP with a number of chronic and other diseases affecting
human health. Higher bioload of MAP in the animals increases the risk of exposure
to the human population with MAP. This review summarizes the current status of
MAP infection in animals as well as in human beings and also highlights the
prospects of effective management and control of disease in animals to reduce the
risk of exposure to human population.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_1401_14 
PMID: 28361818 


178. BMC Genomics. 2017 Mar 14;18(Suppl 2):115. doi: 10.1186/s12864-017-3496-x.

An empirical fuzzy multifactor dimensionality reduction method for detecting
gene-gene interactions.

Leem S(1), Park T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Statistics, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, South
Korea. (2)Department of Statistics, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826,
South Korea. tspark@stats.snu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Detection of gene-gene interaction (GGI) is a key challenge towards
solving the problem of missing heritability in genetics. The multifactor
dimensionality reduction (MDR) method has been widely studied for detecting GGIs.
MDR reduces the dimensionality of multi-factor by means of binary classification 
into high-risk (H) or low-risk (L) groups. Unfortunately, this simple binary
classification does not reflect the uncertainty of H/L classification. Thus, we
proposed Fuzzy MDR to overcome limitations of binary classification by
introducing the degree of membership of two fuzzy sets H/L. While Fuzzy MDR
demonstrated higher power than that of MDR, its performance is highly dependent
on the several tuning parameters. In real applications, it is not easy to choose 
appropriate tuning parameter values.
RESULT: In this work, we propose an empirical fuzzy MDR (EF-MDR) which does not
require specifying tuning parameters values. Here, we propose an empirical
approach to estimating the membership degree that can be directly estimated from 
the data. In EF-MDR, the membership degree is estimated by the maximum likelihood
estimator of the proportion of cases(controls) in each genotype combination. We
also show that the balanced accuracy measure derived from this new membership
function is a linear function of the standard chi-square statistics. This
relationship allows us to perform the standard significance test using p-values
in the MDR framework without permutation. Through two simulation studies, the
power of the proposed EF-MDR is shown to be higher than those of MDR and Fuzzy
MDR. We illustrate the proposed EF-MDR by analyzing Crohn's disease (CD) and
bipolar disorder (BD) in the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium (WTCCC)
dataset.
CONCLUSION: We propose an empirical Fuzzy MDR for detecting GGI using the maximum
likelihood of the proportion of cases(controls) as the membership degree of the
genotype combination. The program written in R for EF-MDR is available at
http://statgen.snu.ac.kr/software/EF-MDR .

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-017-3496-x 
PMCID: PMC5374597
PMID: 28361694 


179. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2017 Mar 31. doi: 10.1007/s00384-017-2791-y. [Epub ahead of
print]

Disease severity and treatment requirements in familial inflammatory bowel
disease.

Ballester MP(1), Martí D(2), Tosca J(2), Bosca-Watts MM(2), Sanahuja A(2),
Navarro P(2), Pascual I(2), Antón R(2), Mora F(2), Mínguez M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Disease Department, University of Valencia, University Clinic
Hospital of Valencia, Blasco Ibañez Av. 17, 46010, Valencia, Spain.
mapibafe@gmail.com. (2)Digestive Disease Department, University of Valencia,
University Clinic Hospital of Valencia, Blasco Ibañez Av. 17, 46010, Valencia,
Spain.

PURPOSE: Several studies demonstrate an increased prevalence and concordance of
inflammatory bowel disease among the relatives of patients. Other studies suggest
that genetic influence is over-estimated. The aims of this study are to evaluate 
the phenotypic expression and the treatment requirements in familial inflammatory
bowel disease, to study the relationship between number of relatives and degree
of kinship with disease severity and to quantify the impact of family aggregation
compared to other environmental factors.
METHODS: Observational analytical study of 1211 patients followed in our unit. We
analyzed, according to the existence of familial association, number and degree
of consanguinity, the phenotypic expression, complications, extraintestinal
manifestations, treatment requirements, and mortality. A multivariable analysis
considering smoking habits and non-steroidal-anti-inflammatory drugs was
performed.
RESULTS: 14.2% of patients had relatives affected. Median age at diagnosis tended
to be lower in the familial group, 32 vs 29, p = 0.07. In familial ulcerative
colitis, there was a higher proportion of extraintestinal manifestations:
peripheral arthropathy (OR = 2.3, p = 0.015) and erythema nodosum (OR = 7.6,
p = 0.001). In familial Crohn's disease, there were higher treatment
requirements: immunomodulators (OR = 1.8, p = 0.029); biologics (OR = 1.9,
p = 0.011); and surgery (OR = 1.7, p = 0.044). The abdominal abscess increased
with the number of relatives affected: 5.1% (sporadic), 7.0% (one), and 14.3%
(two or more), p=0.039. These associations were maintained in the multivariate
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Familial aggregation is considered a risk factor for more aggressive
disease and higher treatment requirements, a tendency for earlier onset, more
abdominal abscess, and extraintestinal manifestations, remaining a risk factor
analyzing the influence of some environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-017-2791-y 
PMID: 28361220 


180. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2017 Mar 16;7:75. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00075.
eCollection 2017.

CD4 T Cell Dependent Colitis Exacerbation Following Re-Exposure of Mycobacterium 
avium ssp. paratuberculosis.

Suwandi A(1), Bargen I(2), Pils MC(3), Krey M(2), Zur Lage S(2), Singh AK(4),
Basler T(5), Falk CS(6), Seidler U(4), Hornef MW(7), Goethe R(5), Weiss S(8).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection ResearchBraunschweig,
Germany; German Centre for Infection Research, Institute of Medical Microbiology 
and Hospital Epidemiology, Hannover Medical SchoolHannover, Germany. (2)Molecular
Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research Braunschweig, Germany.
(3)Mouse Pathology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research Braunschweig,
Germany. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Endocrinology, Hannover
Medical School Hannover, Germany. (5)Institute for Microbiology, University of
Veterinary Medicine Hannover Hannover, Germany. (6)Integrated Research and
Treatment Center Transplantation, Institute of Transplant Immunology, Hannover
Medical School Hannover, Germany. (7)Institute of Medical Microbiology, RWTH
University Hospital Aachen Aachen, Germany. (8)Molecular Immunology, Helmholtz
Centre for Infection ResearchBraunschweig, Germany; Institute of Immunology,
Hannover Medical SchoolHannover, Germany.

Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) is the causative agent of Johne's
disease (JD), a chronic inflammatory bowel disease of cattle characterized by
intermittent to chronic diarrhea. In addition, MAP has been isolated from Crohn's
disease (CD) patients. The impact of MAP on severity of clinical symptoms in JD
as well as its role in CD are yet unknown. We have previously shown that MAP is
able to colonize inflamed enteric tissue and to exacerbate the inflammatory
tissue response (Suwandi et al., 2014). In the present study, we analyzed how
repeated MAP administration influences the course of dextran sulfate sodium
(DSS)-induced colitis. In comparison to mice exposed to DSS or MAP only, repeated
exposure of DSS-treated mice to MAP (DSS/MAP) revealed a significantly enhanced
clinical score, reduction of colon length as well as severe CD4(+) T cell
infiltration into the colonic lamina propria. Functional analysis identified a
critical role of CD4(+) T cells in the MAP-induced disease exacerbation.
Additionally, altered immune responses were observed when closely related
mycobacteria species such as M. avium ssp. avium and M. avium ssp. hominissuis
were administered. These data reveal the specific ability of MAP to aggravate
intestinal inflammation and clinical symptoms. Overall, this phenotype is
compatible with similar disease promoting capabilites of MAP in JD and CD.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00075 
PMCID: PMC5352692
PMID: 28361039 


181. Noro Psikiyatr Ars. 2016 Jun;53(2):173-177. doi: 10.5152/npa.2015.10214. Epub
2016 Jun 1.

Orbital Myositis: Evaluating Five New Cases Regarding Clinical and Radiological
Features.

Önder Ö(1), Bilgin RR(1), Köşkderelioğlu A(1), Gedizlioğlu M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Neurology, İzmir Bozyaka Training and Research Hospital, İzmir,
Turkey.

Orbital myositis (OM) is an inflammatory disorder of the extraocular muscles. The
signs and symptoms of OM are periorbital pain, eyelid swelling and redness,
restricted ocular motility, and strabismus. There are at least two major forms,
described by Benedikt GH Schoser, a limited oligosymptomatic ocular myositis
(LOOM), which is associated with conjunctival injection only, and severe
exophthalmic ocular myositis (SEOM), which presents with additional ptosis,
chemosis, and proptosis. We report the clinical and radiological features of five
patients with OM who were recently followed in our clinic. Three patients, one
man and two women, were placed in the LOOM group, and the other two patients,
both women, were in the SEOM group. In both groups, the initial complaints were
pain worsening with eye movements and double vision, with only one patient in the
SEOM group having pain worsening secondary to Crohn's disease. The most affected 
muscles were the medial and lateral recti. All the patients were treated with
corticosteroids, resulting in rapid improvement. Only one patient in the SEOM
group experienced a relapse. Orbital magnetic resonance imaging of all the
patients revealed enlargement and contrast enhancement of the involved muscles.
Although clinical and radiological features are quite consistent, delayed
diagnosis in some patients demonstrates the importance of the awareness of OM.

DOI: 10.5152/npa.2015.10214 
PMCID: PMC5353024
PMID: 28360792 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No conflict of interest was
declared by the authors.


182. Clin Nutr. 2017 Mar 15. pii: S0261-5614(17)30101-2. doi:
10.1016/j.clnu.2017.03.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Food avoidance in patients with inflammatory bowel disease: What, when and who?

Bergeron F(1), Bouin M(2), D'Aoust L(3), Lemoyne M(4), Presse N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Médecine, Faculté de Médecine, Université de Montréal,
Montréal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: fanny.bergeron@umontreal.ca.
(2)Département de Médecine, Faculté de Médecine, Université de Montréal,
Montréal, QC, Canada; Service de gastroentérologie, Hôpital St-Luc, Centre
hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada; Centre de
Recherche, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. 
Electronic address: mickael.bouin@umontreal.ca. (3)Département de Médecine,
Faculté de Médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada; Service de
gastroentérologie, Hôpital St-Luc, Centre hospitalier de l'Université de
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: louise_daoust@sympatico.ca.
(4)Département de Médecine, Faculté de Médecine, Université de Montréal,
Montréal, QC, Canada; Service de gastroentérologie, Hôpital St-Luc, Centre
hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. Electronic
address: michel.lemoyne@umontreal.ca. (5)Département de nutrition, Faculté de
Médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada; Centre de recherche,
Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. Electronic
address: nancy.presse@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patients with inflammatory bowel diseases avoid a variety of
foods. However, it remains unclear how this behavior varies across patients. This
cross-sectional study investigated how the food avoidance pattern in inflammatory
bowel disease varies according to disease's activity, disease's subtype, Crohn's 
location, and prior history of bowel resection, strictures, and fistulae.
METHODS: Outpatients with Crohn's disease (n = 173) and ulcerative colitis
(n = 72) reported which food they avoid when they perceive they are in remission 
or in active disease using a list of 82 food items classified in 10 categories.
Medical charts were reviewed for patients' characteristics. Linear regression
analyses were used to compare food exclusion rates between patients' subgroups
and food categories.
RESULTS: During remission, food exclusion rates varied from 1 to 39%. Most
avoided foods were those with capsaicin, meat alternatives, and raw vegetables.
Overall, food exclusion rates were 38% higher in Crohn's disease than ulcerative 
colitis (P < 0.001), and 50% higher in stricturing than non-stricturing Crohn's
disease (P < 0.001). During active disease, food exclusion rates were 69% higher 
than in remission (P < 0.001). Similar differences between subgroups were again
observed during active disease though less noticeable than in remission. No
association was found with other disease characteristics. Avoided foods were very
similar across patients except for alcoholic beverages and foods rich in dietary 
fibers/residue, which were avoided more specifically during active disease and in
Crohn's disease, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Food avoidance is common among patients with inflammatory bowel
diseases, and most particularly in those with stricturing Crohn's disease.
Specificities in avoidance pattern suggest that the clinical response to dietary 
restrictions may differ according to the disease's characteristics.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2017.03.010 
PMID: 28359542 


183. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Mar 29. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4549-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Predictors of Clinical Response and Remission at 1 Year Among a Multicenter
Cohort of Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Treated with Vedolizumab.

Allegretti JR(1,)(2), Barnes EL(3,)(4), Stevens B(5), Storm M(3), Ananthakrishnan
A(5,)(4), Yajnik V(5,)(4), Korzenik J(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street,
Boston, MA, 02141, USA. jallegretti@bwh.harvard.edu. (2)Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA, USA. jallegretti@bwh.harvard.edu. (3)Division of Gastroenterology,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA, 02141, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (5)Gastroenterology Unit,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Vedolizumab (VDZ) has demonstrated long-term efficacy in Crohn's
disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) in phase III trials.
AIMS: Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of VDZ at week 54 in inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD) in a multicenter cohort of patients.
METHODS: Adult patients completing induction therapy with VDZ were eligible for
this study. Clinical response and remission was assessed using the
Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI) for CD, the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index
for UC and physician assessment.
RESULTS: Among 136 total patients (96 CD and 40 UC), 76 (56%) demonstrated
clinical response or remission at week 54. In univariate analysis, for patients
with CD concomitant initiation of immunomodulator therapy (2.71, 95% CI
1.11-6.57), the addition of an immunomodulator (OR 11.49, 3.16-41.75) and CRP < 3
(4.92, 95% CI 1.99-12.15) was associated with increased odds of clinical response
or remission at week 54. For UC patients, hospitalization after VDZ induction was
associated with decreased odds of response or remission at week 54 (OR 0.22, 95% 
CI 0.05-0.88). On multivariate analysis in CD, addition of an immunomodulator (OR
8.33, 95% CI 2.15-32.26) remained significant predictors of clinical response or 
remission at week 54.
CONCLUSIONS: Among a multicenter cohort of patients with IBD demonstrating
primary response to VDZ, the addition of combination therapy with an
immunomodulator is a significant predictor of clinical response or remission at
week 54 in patients with CD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4549-3 
PMID: 28357697 


184. N Engl J Med. 2017 Mar 30;376(13):1292-1294. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1612455.

Multispectral Optoacoustic Tomography for Assessment of Crohn's Disease Activity.

Knieling F(1), Neufert C(1), Hartmann A(1), Claussen J(2), Urich A(2), Egger
C(3), Vetter M(3), Fischer S(3), Pfeifer L(3), Hagel A(3), Kielisch C(3), Görtz
RS(3), Wildner D(3), Engel M(3), Röther J(3), Uter W(3), Siebler J(3), Atreya
R(3), Rascher W(3), Strobel D(3), Neurath MF(3), Waldner MJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany. (2)iThera Medical,
Munich, Germany. (3)University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany
maximilian.waldner@uk-erlangen.de.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1612455 
PMID: 28355498 


185. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract. 2017 Mar 29:1-10. doi:
10.1080/13651501.2017.1306081. [Epub ahead of print]

Association between psychological measures with inflammatory anddisease-related
markers of inflammatory bowel disease.

Abautret-Daly Á(1,)(2), Dempsey E(1,)(2), Riestra S(3), de Francisco-García R(3),
Parra-Blanco A(3), Rodrigo L(3), Medina C(2,)(4), Connor TJ(5), Harkin A(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Neuropsychopharmacology Research Group, Trinity College Institute of
Neuroscience, Trinity College , Dublin 2 , Ireland. (2)b School of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Trinity College , Dublin 2 , Ireland. (3)c Department of
Gastroenterology , Hospital Central de Asturias , Oviedo , Spain. (4)d Trinity
Biomedical Sciences Institute, Trinity College , Dublin 2 , Ireland. (5)e
Neuroimmunology Research Group, School of Medicine and Trinity College Institute 
of Neuroscience, Trinity College , Dublin 2 , Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed at investigating the associations between
inflammatory mediators, symptoms and psychological disturbances in inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD) patients.
METHODS: IBD patients and patient controls were examined during a single visit to
a gastroenterology clinic. Disease activity was assessed using the Mayo index for
ulcerative colitis (UC), inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ), Crohn's
disease activity index (CDAI) and Crohn's disease endoscopic index of severity
(CDEIS). Gene expression of inflammatory mediators were measured in intestinal
biopsies and whole blood samples along with circulating concentrations of
interleukin (IL)-6, interferon (IFN)γ, C-reactive protein (CRP), kynurenine and
tryptophan. Validated depression, anxiety and quality of life scores were used to
assess psychological well-being.
RESULTS: Patients who were symptomatic had the highest depression and anxiety
scores, together with increased intestinal expression of IL-1β, IL-6 and matrix
metalloproteinase-9, increased circulating IL-6 and CRP, and an increased
circulating kynurenine:tryptophan ratio. Increased Hamilton depression (HAM-D)
scores in IBD patients were observed independent of the psychological impact of
acute symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Active IBD is associated with symptoms of depression and anxiety and
with a raised circulating inflammatory mediator profile. Patients with active IBD
exhibiting psychological symptoms should undergo psychological evaluation to
ensure the psychological aspects of the condition are considered and addressed.

DOI: 10.1080/13651501.2017.1306081 
PMID: 28353360 


186. Adv Neurobiol. 2017;14:123-143. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-49969-7_7.

LRRK2 and the Immune System.

Dzamko NL(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, University of NSW, Kensington, NSW, 2052,
Australia. n.dzamko@neura.edu.au. (2)Neuroscience Research Australia, Randwick,
NSW, 2031, Australia. n.dzamko@neura.edu.au.

Polymorphisms in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been linked to
familial Parkinson's disease, increased risk of sporadic Parkinson's disease,
increased risk of Crohn's inflammatory bowel disease, and increased
susceptibility to leprosy. As well as LRRK2 mutations, these diseases share in
common immune dysfunction and inflammation. LRRK2 is highly expressed in
particular immune cells and has been biochemically linked to the intertwined
pathways regulating inflammation, mitochondrial function, and autophagy/lysosomal
function. This review outlines what is currently understood about LRRK2 function 
in the immune system and the potential implications of LRRK2 dysfunction for
diseases genetically linked to this enigmatic enzyme.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-49969-7_7 
PMID: 28353282 


187. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2017 Mar 28. doi: 10.1007/s40262-017-0535-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Accounting for Pharmacokinetic Variability of Certolizumab Pegol in Patients with
Crohn's Disease.

Vande Casteele N(1,)(2,)(3), Mould DR(4), Coarse J(5), Hasan I(5), Gils A(6),
Feagan B(7), Sandborn WJ(8,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, School of Medicine, IBD Center, University of
California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive #0956, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.
nvandecasteele@ucsd.edu. (2)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological
Sciences, KU Leuven, Louvain, Belgium. nvandecasteele@ucsd.edu. (3)Robarts
Research Institute, London, ON, Canada. nvandecasteele@ucsd.edu. (4)Projections
Research Inc., Phoenixville, PA, USA. (5)UCB Pharma, Raleigh, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Louvain,
Belgium. (7)Robarts Research Institute, London, ON, Canada. (8)Division of
Gastroenterology, School of Medicine, IBD Center, University of California San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive #0956, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.

BACKGROUND: Certolizumab pegol is an effective biologic for patients with Crohn's
disease (CD). Individual differences in certolizumab pegol apparent clearance
(CL/F) affect exposure and possibly efficacy. A previously developed population
pharmacokinetic (PK) model did not account for dynamic changes in clinical
parameters during therapy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to refine the existing PK model to capture
the time-varying influence of covariates.
METHODS: Data collected from 2157 Crohn's disease patients in nine studies were
analyzed using nonlinear mixed-effects modeling software (NONMEM). Certolizumab
pegol concentration-time data were described by a one-compartment PK model with
first-order absorption, and one-compartment disposition with linear,
time-dependent elimination using antidrug antibody (ADAb) concentration as a
continuous variable.
RESULTS: The final dataset consisted of 12,926 analyzable records. Parameter
estimates were absorption rate constant 1.83/day, CL/F 0.527 L/day, and apparent 
volume of distribution (V/F) 8.33 L. ADAb concentration (2.5-214 units/mL)
increased the median CL/F by 142-174%. For a typical patient, body weight
(46.8-100.5 kg) increased the median CL/F and V/F from 82 to 120%. Albumin
(32-48 g/L) decreased and C-reactive protein (0.5-54.0 mg/L) increased the median
CL/F from 123 to 85% and from 83 to 113%, respectively. Between-patient
variability of CL/F was 19.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: By incorporating time-varying covariates, this population PK model
reduces between-patient variability on CL/F estimates, and the relative influence
of ADAb can now be assessed. As Crohn's disease patient covariates are often
time-dependent, this model is more reflective of patient drug exposure with
sustained treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s40262-017-0535-3 
PMID: 28353055 


188. Acta Dermatovenerol Alp Pannonica Adriat. 2017 Mar;26(1):21-23.

Hidradenitis suppurativa in Crohn's disease during adalimumab therapy: a paradox?

Martina E(1), Campanati A(1), Giuliodori K(1), Offidani A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dermatology Unit, Department of Clinical and Molecular Sciences, Polytechnic
Marche University, Ancona, Italy.

A sporadic association between hidradenitis suppurativa and other diseases is
reported in the literature, but few authors have described the association with
Crohn's disease. Adalimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody targeted at
tumor necrosis factor alpha approved for the treatment of Crohn's disease and,
recently, for active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adult
patients that do not respond adequately to systemic conventional treatment. We
report an unusual case of a paradoxical effect of adalimumab in the onset of
hidradenitis suppurativa in a 40-year-old woman during the treatment of Crohn's
disease.


PMID: 28352932 


189. JCI Insight. 2017 Mar 23;2(6):e91917. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.91917.

LRRK2 but not ATG16L1 is associated with Paneth cell defect in Japanese Crohn's
disease patients.

Liu TC(1), Naito T(2), Liu Z(3), VanDussen KL(1), Haritunians T(3), Li D(3), Endo
K(2), Kawai Y(4), Nagasaki M(4), Kinouchi Y(5), McGovern DP(3), Shimosegawa T(2),
Kakuta Y(2), Stappenbeck TS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (3)F. Widjaja Family
Foundation Inflammatory Bowel and Immunobiology Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, USA. (4)Department of Integrative
Genomics, Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
(5)Health Administration Center, Center for the Advancement of Higher Education, 
Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

BACKGROUND. Morphological patterns of Paneth cells are a prognostic biomarker in 
Western Crohn's disease (CD) patients, and are associated with
autophagy-associated ATG16L1 and NOD2 variants. We hypothesized that genetic
determinants of Paneth cell phenotype in other ethnic CD cohorts are distinct but
also involved in autophagy. METHODS. We performed a hypothesis-driven analysis of
56 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with CD susceptibility or
known to affect Paneth cell function in 110 Japanese CD patients who underwent
ileal resection. We subsequently performed a genome-wide association analysis.
Paneth cell phenotype was determined by defensin-5 immunofluorescence. Selected
genotype-Paneth cell defect correlations were compared to a Western CD cohort (n 
= 164). RESULTS. The average percentage of abnormal Paneth cells in Japanese CD
was similar to Western CD (P = 0.87), and abnormal Paneth cell phenotype was also
associated with early recurrence (P = 0.013). In contrast to Western CD, ATG16L1 
T300A was not associated with Paneth cell defect in Japanese CD (P = 0.20). Among
the 56 selected SNPs, only LRRK2 M2397T showed significant association with
Paneth cell defect (P = 3.62 × 10(-4)), whereas in the Western CD cohort it was
not (P = 0.76). Pathway analysis of LRRK2 and other candidate genes with P less
than 5 × 10(-4) showed connections with known CD susceptibility genes and links
to autophagy and TNF-α networks. CONCLUSIONS. We found dichotomous effects of
ATG16L1 and LRRK2 on Paneth cell defect between Japanese and Western CD. Genes
affecting Paneth cell phenotype in Japanese CD were also associated with
autophagy. Paneth cell phenotype also predicted prognosis in Japanese CD.
FUNDING. Helmsley Charitable Trust, Doris Duke Foundation (grant 2014103), Japan 
Society for the Promotion of Science (KAKENHI grants JP15H04805 and JP15K15284), 
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation grant 274415, NIH (grants 1R56DK095820,
K01DK109081, and UL1 TR000448).

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.91917 
PMCID: PMC5358495
PMID: 28352666 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: M. Nagasaki received
research grants from Toshiba Corporation during the conduct of the study.


190. Exp Ther Med. 2017 Feb;13(2):395-400. doi: 10.3892/etm.2016.3966. Epub 2016 Dec
12.

Risk of cardiovascular disease in inflammatory bowel disease.

Wu P(1), Jia F(1), Zhang B(1), Zhang P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, The Affiliated Xuzhou
Hospital of Medical College of Southeast University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu 221009, P.R.
China. (2)Department of Cardiology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, The Affiliated
Xuzhou Hospital of Medical College of Southeast University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu
221009, P.R. China.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) can arise because of chronic inflammation and
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is one such disease where the risk for CVD and
eventual heart failure is increased considerably. The incidence of IBD, which
refers to both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, has been on the increase
in several countries and is a potential risk factor for CVD. Although IBD can
potentially cause venous thromboembolism, its significance in arterial
stiffening, atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease and myocardial infarction is 
only being realized now and it is currently under debate. However, several
studies with large groups of patients have demonstrated the association of IBD
with heart disease. It has been suggested that systemic inflammation as observed 
in IBD patients leads to oxidative stress and elevated levels of inflammatory
cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), which lead to phenotypic
changes in smooth muscle cells and sets into motion a series of events that
culminate in atherosclerosis and CVD. Besides the endogenous factors and
cytokines, it has been suggested that due to the compromised intestinal mucosal
barrier, endotoxins and bacterial lipopolysaccharides produced by intestinal
microflora can enter into circulation and activate inflammatory responses that
lead to atherosclerosis. Therapeutic management of IBD-associated heart diseases 
cannot be achieved with simple anti-inflammatory drugs such as corticosteroids
and anti-TNF-α antibodies. Treatment with existing medications for CVDs, aspirin,
platelet aggregation inhibitors and statins is found to be acceptable and safe.
Nevertheless, further research is needed to assess their efficacy in IBD patients
suffering from heart disease.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2016.3966 
PMCID: PMC5348671
PMID: 28352306 


191. Sci Rep. 2017 Mar 28;7(1):483. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-00532-x.

Identification of small molecule inhibitors of Interleukin-18.

Krumm B(1,)(2), Meng X(3), Xiang Y(3), Deng J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oklahoma State University,
Stillwater, OK, 74078, USA. bkrumm@email.unc.edu. (2)The University of North
Carolina, School of Medicine, Pharmacology, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 27599,
United States. bkrumm@email.unc.edu. (3)Department of Microbiology, Immunology
and Molecular Genetics, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA. (4)Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, 74078, USA.
junpeng.deng@okstate.edu.

Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is a pleiotropic pro-inflammatory cytokine belonging to
the IL-1 superfamily. IL-18 plays an important role in host innate and adaptive
immune defense but its aberrant activities are also associated with inflammatory 
diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease. IL-18 activity is
modulated in vivo by its naturally occurring antagonist, IL-18 Binding Protein
(IL-18BP). Recent crystal structures of human IL-18 (hIL-18) in complex with its 
antagonists or cognate receptor(s) have revealed a conserved binding interface on
hIL-18. Through virtual screening of the National Cancer Institute Diversity Set 
II and in vitro competitive ELISA we have identified three compounds (NSC201631, 
NSC80734, and NSC61610) that disrupt hIL-18 binding to the ectromelia virus
IL-18BP. Through cell-based bioassay, we show that NSC80734 inhibits
IL-18-induced production of IFN-γ in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 of
~250 nM. Our results and methodology presented here demonstrate the feasibility
of developing small molecule inhibitors that specifically target the rather large
interface of IL-18 that is involved in extensive protein-protein interactions
with both IL-18BP and its cognate receptor(s). Our data therefore provide the
basis for an approach by which small molecules can be identified that modulate
IL-18 activity.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-00532-x 
PMID: 28352119 


192. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;29(5):595-601. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000840.

Time trends in the epidemiology and outcome of perianal fistulizing Crohn's
disease in a population-based cohort.

Göttgens KW(1), Jeuring SF, Sturkenboom R, Romberg-Camps MJ, Oostenbrug LE,
Jonkers DM, Stassen LP, Masclee AA, Pierik MJ, Breukink SO.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aGeneral Surgery bInternal Medicine, Division of
Gastroenterology-Hepatology cSchool of Nutrition and Translational Research in
Metabolism (NUTRIM), Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht dDepartment
of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology-Hepatology, Zuyderland Medical Centre, 
Sittard-Geleen eDepartment of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology-Hepatology, 
Zuyderland Medical Centre, Heerlen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Perianal disease is a debilitating condition that frequently occurs in
Crohn's disease (CD) patients. It is currently unknown whether its incidence has 
changed in the era of frequent immunomodulator use and biological availability.
We studied the incidence and outcome of perianal and rectovaginal fistulas over
the past two decades in our population-based Inflammatory Bowel Disease
South-Limburg cohort.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All 1162 CD patients registered in the Inflammatory Bowel
Disease South-Limburg registry were included. The cumulative probabilities of
developing a perianal and rectovaginal fistula were compared between three eras
distinguished by the year of CD diagnosis: 1991-1998, 1999-2005 and 2006-2011.
Second, clinical risk factors and the risk of fistula recurrence were determined.
RESULTS: The cumulative 5-year perianal fistula rate was 14.1% in the 1991-1998
era, 10.4% in the 1999-2005 era and 10.3% in the 2006-2011 era, P=0.70. Colonic
disease was associated with an increased risk of developing perianal disease,
whereas older age was associated with a decreased risk (both P<0.01). Over time, 
more patients were exposed to immunomodulators or biologicals before fistula
diagnosis (18.5 vs. 32.1 vs. 52.1%, respectively, P=0.02) and started biological 
therapy thereafter (18.6 vs. 34.1 vs. 54.0%, respectively, P<0.01). The
cumulative 5-year perianal fistula recurrence rate was not significantly
different between eras (19.5 vs. 25.5 vs. 33.1%, P=0.28). In contrast, the
cumulative 5-year rectovaginal rate attenuated from 5.7% (the 1991-2005 era) to
1.7% (the 2006-2011 era), P=0.01.
CONCLUSION: Over the past two decades, the risk of developing a perianal fistula 
was stable, as well as its recurrence rate, underlining the lasting need for
improving treatment strategies for this invalidating condition.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000840 
PMID: 28350751 


193. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;29(5):577-586. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000826.

Effect of threatening life experiences and adverse family relations in ulcerative
colitis: analysis using structural equation modeling and comparison with Crohn's 
disease.

Slonim-Nevo V(1), Sarid O, Friger M, Schwartz D, Sergienko R, Pereg A, Vardi H,
Singer T, Chernin E, Greenberg D, Odes S; Israeli IBD Research Nucleus (IIRN).

Author information: 
(1)aSpitzer Department of Social Work, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
Departments of bPublic Health cHealth Systems Management dTechnical Staff,
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev eDepartment of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: We published that threatening life experiences and adverse
family relations impact Crohn's disease (CD) adversely. In this study, we examine
the influence of these stressors in ulcerative colitis (UC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients completed demography, economic status (ES), the
Patient-Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index (P-SCCAI), the Short Inflammatory 
Bowel Disease Questionnaire (SIBDQ), the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the
Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI), the Family Assessment Device (FAD), and the List
of Threatening Life Experiences (LTE). Analysis included multiple linear and
quantile regressions and structural equation modeling, comparing CD.
RESULTS: UC patients (N=148, age 47.55±16.04 years, 50.6% women) had scores
[median (interquartile range)] as follows: SCAAI, 2 (0.3-4.8); FAD, 1.8
(1.3-2.2); LTE, 1.0 (0-2.0); SF-36 Physical Health, 49.4 (36.8-55.1); SF-36
Mental Health, 45 (33.6-54.5); Brief Symptom Inventory-Global Severity Index
(GSI), 0.5 (0.2-1.0). SIBDQ was 49.76±14.91. There were significant positive
associations for LTE and SCAAI (25, 50, 75% quantiles), FAD and SF-36 Mental
Health, FAD and LTE with GSI (50, 75, 90% quantiles), and ES with SF-36 and
SIBDQ. The negative associations were as follows: LTE with SF-36 Physical/Mental 
Health, SIBDQ with FAD and LTE, ES with GSI (all quantiles), and P-SCCAI (75, 90%
quantiles). In structural equation modeling analysis, LTE impacted ES negatively 
and ES impacted GSI negatively; LTE impacted GSI positively and GSI impacted
P-SCCAI positively. In a split model, ES had a greater effect on GSI in UC than
CD, whereas other path magnitudes were similar.
CONCLUSION: Threatening life experiences, adverse family relations, and poor ES
make UC patients less healthy both physically and mentally. The impact of ES is
worse in UC than CD.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000826 
PMID: 28350749 


194. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;29(5):509-515. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000838.

Prevalence of hepatitis B and C and factors for infection and nonimmune in
inflammatory bowel disease patients in China.

Chen D(1), Luo S, Ben Q, Lu L, Wan X, Wu J.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Gastroenterology, Shanghai First People's Hospital, Shanghai
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine bDepartment of Gastroenterology, Ruijin
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aims of this study were to investigate the prevalence of hepatitis
B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD) patients and the risk factors related to the infection and nonimmune
status.
METHODS: A retrospective study was carried out at two clinical centers. The
prevalence of viral markers and risk factors related to HBV and HCV infection and
nonimmune status were analyzed in IBD patients. Age-matched and sex-matched
healthy individuals were recruited as the controls.
RESULTS: A total of 980 IBD patients were included in this study. Present and
past HBV infection was detected in 41.21% of the IBD group, which was higher than
that in the general population (P=0.003). Age older than 30 years (P=0.000),
ulcerative colitis (P=0.002), and previous surgery (P=0.039) were found to be
significant risk factors for HBV infection in the multivariate analysis. 36.43%
of the patients in the IBD group had nonimmune status against HBV, and age less
than 40 years (P=0.011) and Crohn's disease (P=0.002) were identified as
independent risk factors in the multivariate analysis. The prevalence of HCV
infection was low and similar to that of the general population.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of HBV infection in IBD patients in China was higher
than that in Europe, USA, and the general population in China, but the prevalence
of HCV infection in IBD patients was similar to that in the general population in
this study. The frequency of nonimmune status against HBV was high, especially in
young Crohn's disease patients, and HBV vaccination should be intensified and
have a targeted coverage.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000838 
PMID: 28350740 


195. Eur J Haematol. 2017 Mar 27. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12886. [Epub ahead of print]

Progressive Histoplasmosis with Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis and
Epithelioid Cell Granulomatosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Schulze AB(1), Heptner B(1), Kessler T(1), Baumgarten B(1), Stoica V(2), Mohr
M(1), Wiewrodt R(1), Warneke V(3), Hartmann W(3), Wüllenweber J(4), Schülke C(5),
Schäfers M(6), Wilmes D(7), Becker K(4), Schmidt LH(1), Groll AH(8), Berdel
WE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine A, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(2)Department of Medicine B, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(3)Gerhard Domagk Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster,
Germany. (4)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Muenster,
Muenster, Germany. (5)Department of Clinical Radiology, University Hospital
Muenster, Muenster, Germany. (6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University
Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany. (7)National Reference Center for
Cryptococcosis, Scedosporiosis, and Endemic Mycoses, Robert Koch Institut, FG 16,
Berlin, Germany. (8)Infectious Disease Research Program, Center for Bone Marrow
Transplantation, Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, University Hospital
Muenster, Muenster, Germany.

Histoplasmosis in central Europe is a rare fungal disease with diverse clinical
presentations. Apart from acute pulmonary histoplasmosis and involvement of the
central nervous system, the most serious clinical presentation is progressive
disseminated histoplasmosis which is generally associated with severe
immunodeficiency and in particular, advanced HIV-infection. Here we report on an 
immunocompetent female residing in a non-endemic area, presenting with
progressive disseminated histoplasmosis after a remote travel history to Thailand
and Costa Rica. Diagnosis was delayed by several months due to misinterpretation 
of epithelioid cell granulomatosis of the intestine as Crohn's disease and of
similar lung lesions as acute sarcoidosis. Prompted by clinical deterioration
with signs and symptoms consistent with hemophagocytic lymphohistocytosis, a bone
marrow aspiration was performed that documented hemophagocytosis and
intracellular organisms interpreted as Leishmania sp., but later identified by
molecular methods as Histoplasma capsulatum. Treatment with liposomal
amphotericin B followed by posaconazole led to prompt clinical improvement and
ultimately, cure. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12886 
PMID: 28349614 


196. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Mar 27. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4540-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Low-Dose Cannabidiol Is Safe but Not Effective in the Treatment for Crohn's
Disease, a Randomized Controlled Trial.

Naftali T(1,)(2), Mechulam R(3,)(4), Marii A(5), Gabay G(6,)(7), Stein A(6,)(7), 
Bronshtain M(6,)(7), Laish I(6,)(7), Benjaminov F(6,)(7), Konikoff FM(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Meir Medical Center, 59 Tchernihovsky st.,
4441002, Kfar Saba, Israel. Timna.naftali@clalit.org.il. (2)Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Timna.naftali@clalit.org.il.
(3)School of Pharmacology, Hadassa Medical School, Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel. (4)Faculty of Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Hebrew University, POB 1221, 9112102, Ein Karem, Jerusalem, Israel. (5)Hilel Yafe
Medical Center, Hshalom st., 38100, Hadera, Israel. (6)Department of
Gastroenterology, Meir Medical Center, 59 Tchernihovsky st., 4441002, Kfar Saba, 
Israel. (7)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Cannabidiol (CBD) is an anti-inflammatory cannabinoid shown to be
beneficial in a mouse model of IBD. Lacking any central effect, cannabidiol is an
attractive option for treating inflammatory diseases.
AIM: To assess the effects of cannabidiol on Crohn's disease in a randomized
placebo-controlled trial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients aged 18-75 years with a Crohn's disease
activity index (CDAI) >200 were randomized to receive oral (10 mg) CBD or placebo
twice daily. Patients did not respond to standard treatment with steroids (11
patients), thiopurines (14), or TNF antagonists (11). Disease activity and
laboratory parameters were assessed during 8 weeks of treatment and 2 weeks
thereafter. Other medical treatment remained unchanged.
RESULTS: Of 20 patients recruited 19 completed the study. Their mean age was
39 ± 15, and 11 were males. The average CDAI before cannabidiol consumption was
337 ± 108 and 308 ± 96 (p = NS) in the CBD and placebo groups, respectively.
After 8 weeks of treatment, the index was 220 ± 122 and 216 ± 121 in the CBD and 
placebo groups, respectively (p = NS). Hemoglobin, albumin, and kidney and liver 
function tests remained unchanged. No side effects were observed.
CONCLUSION: In this study of moderately active Crohn's disease, CBD was safe but 
had no beneficial effects. This could be due to lack of effect of CBD on Crohn's 
disease, but could also be due to the small dose of CBD, the small number of
patients in the study, or the lack of the necessary synergism with other
cannabinoids. Further investigation is warranted. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV:
NCT01037322.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4540-z 
PMID: 28349233 


197. J Pediatr Surg. 2017 Mar 18. pii: S0022-3468(17)30168-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2017.03.019. [Epub ahead of print]

The role of imaging in the preoperative assessment of children with inflammatory 
colitis.

Seemann NM(1), Radhakrishnan S(2), Gazendam A(3), King SK(1), Falkiner M(2),
Shkumat N(2), Greer MC(4), Langer JC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of General and Thoracic Surgery, The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, The Hospital for
Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (3)Department of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (4)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, The
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Medical
Imaging, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (5)Division of General 
and Thoracic Surgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: jacob.langer@sickkids.ca.

BACKGROUND: Accurate diagnosis of Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis is
essential for surgical planning. This study compared the accuracy, safety, and
utility of small bowel follow-through (SBFT) and magnetic resonance enterography 
(MRE) for detecting small bowel (SB) involvement preoperatively.
METHODS: A retrospective review of children who underwent colectomy for
inflammatory bowel disease (2000-2014) was performed. Preoperative SBFT and MRE
were independently reviewed by two radiologists blinded to clinical data. Gold
standard for diagnosis was surgical pathology.
RESULTS: 68 patients (36 female) were included. 45 patients had SBFT prior to
colectomy, 17 patients had MRE, and 6 both. Interrater reliability for radiologic
interpretation was 90% (SBFT) and 91% (MRE). Mean study durations were 190min
(SBFT) and 59min (MRE). Median effective dose for SBFT was 1.5mSv, while MRE
involved no ionizing radiation. Specificities for diagnosing SB involvement were 
87.5% (SBFT) and 94% (MRE). 54 patients underwent subtotal colectomy and
ileostomy, 12 restorative proctocolectomy, and 2 colectomy with ileorectal
anastomosis. Preoperative imaging correlated with surgical pathology in 83%
(SBFT) and 90% (MRE).
CONCLUSION: MRE is at least as effective as SBFT for assessing SB disease in
children with colitis prior to colectomy. MRE requires less time and does not
expose children to ionizing radiation. Retrospective Case Series, Level 4
Evidence.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2017.03.019 
PMID: 28347526 


198. Spondyloarthritis in Over 16s: Diagnosis and Management.

National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (UK).
London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (UK); 2017 Feb.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence: Clinical Guidelines.

Spondyloarthritis encompasses a group of inflammatory conditions with some shared
features, including extra-articular manifestations. Both peripheral and axial
joints can be affected. The spondyloarthritides are distinct from rheumatoid
arthritis but are as important to recognise and manage early in their
presentation to improve health outcomes. The majority of people with these
conditions have either psoriatic arthritis or axial spondyloarthritis, which
includes ankylosing spondylitis. Ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic
axial spondyloarthritis primarily affect the spine, in particular the sacroiliac 
joint. Both conditions manifest in similar ways; the primary classification
difference is whether sacroiliitis is detectable on X-ray. Psoriatic arthritis
may manifest in a number of different patterns. These include predominant
involvement of small joints in the hands and feet, predominant large joint
involvement particularly in the knees or combinations of these. Psoriatic
arthritis may also involve the axial joints, and inflammation of the entheses
and/or finger and toe joints. Skin and nail involvement may not be present at
diagnosis and in its absence, a family history of psoriasis is required to meet
the diagnostic criteria. Less common subgroups are enteropathic
spondyloarthritis, which is associated with inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s
disease and ulcerative colitis), and reactive arthritis, which can occur in
people following gastrointestinal or genitourinary infections. The final subgroup
is people who have undifferentiated spondyloarthritis. These people generally
have an asymmetrical oligoarticular (fewer than 5 involved joints) arthritis,
often involving the knees. They do not meet the diagnostic criteria of the other 
subgroups at presentation but their disease may evolve to do so at a later stage.
This guideline also includes people who are 16 years or older with axial or
peripheral symptoms who have previously been diagnosed with juvenile idiopathic
arthritis. Healthcare professionals in non-specialist settings do not always
recognise the signs and symptoms of spondyloarthritis, particularly spinal
symptoms, which may be mistakenly attributed to other causes of low back pain.
This can lead to substantial delays in diagnosis and treatment with consequent
disease progression and disability. This guideline seeks to raise awareness of
the features of spondyloarthritis and provide clear advice on what action to take
when people with signs and symptoms first present in healthcare settings. This
guideline also provides advice on the interventions available to people with
spondyloarthritis. These include pharmacological and non-pharmacological
treatments, and surgery. The guidance also provides advice on how care for people
with spondyloarthritis should be organised across healthcare settings, and what
information and support should be provided.

PMID: 28350428 


199. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Jun - Jul;52(6-7):716-721. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1304571. Epub 2017 Mar 27.

Prognostic significance of granulomas in children with Crohn's disease.

Rothschild B(1), Rinawi F(1), Herman Y(1), Nir O(2), Shamir R(1,)(2), Assa
A(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Institute of Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Disease , Schneider
Children's Hospital , Petach-Tikva , Israel. (2)b Sackler Faculty of Medicine,
Tel-Aviv University , Tel-Aviv , Israel.

OBJECTIVES: Granulomas have long been considered the histological hallmark of
Crohn's disease (CD). Currently, there is considerable dispute with regards to
their prognostic implications. We aimed to determine the effect of granulomas on 
phenotypic features and disease's long-term outcomes in a large cohort of
pediatric CD patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Medical records of pediatric CD patients diagnosed at the 
Schneider Children's Medical Center were reviewed retrospectively. Patients were 
categorized into two groups based on the presence or absence of granulomas at
diagnosis. Baseline characteristics included anthropometric, clinical,
laboratory, radiological and endoscopic data. Outcome measures included flares,
hospitalizations, biological therapy and surgery.
RESULTS: Of 289 CD patients diagnosed between 2001 and 2015, 99 patients (34%)
had granulomas. Median age of the entire cohort at diagnosis was 14.2 years
(females, 42.6%), with a median follow-up of 8.5 years. Patients with granulomas 
had a significantly higher percentage (47.5% vs. 23.7%, p = .001) of upper
gastrointestinal involvement and ileo-colonic disease (64.9% vs. 49.5%, p = .01).
Extraintestinal manifestations were twice as common in patients without
granulomas (16.3% vs. 8.1%, p = .05). Patients with granulomas were more likely
to be hospitalized (HR =1.43, 95% CI: 1.0-2.0) and to receive biologic therapy
(HR = 1.52, 95% CI: 1.1-2.11). Additionally, both of these disease outcomes
occurred significantly earlier (p = .013 and p = .027, respectively). In
contrast, patients with granulomas did not exhibit increased risk of flares or
bowel resection.
CONCLUSION: Patients with granulomas exhibited a distinct phenotype at diagnosis 
and demonstrated a more severe disease course.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1304571 
PMID: 28346037 


200. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2017 Mar 27;71(0):220-226.

Fecal microbiota transplantation - methods of treatment of recurrent Clostridium 
difficile infections and other diseases.

Juszczuk K(1), Grudlewska K(1), Mikucka A(1), Gospodarek E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katedra i Zakład Mikrobiologii Collegium Medicum w Bydgoszczy Uniwersytet
Mikołaja Kopernika w Toruniu.

Clostridium difficile is a serious epidemiological problem and particularly
dangerous microorganism causing hospital infections. Currently, the treatment of 
C. difficile infections is the use of metronidazole or vancomycin. However, in
some patients, recurrent infection difficult to treat occurs. Fecal microbiota
transplantation (FMT) is a new method used to treat the recurrent CDI. FMT
consists in the infusion of the fecal suspension from a healthy donor into the
gastrointestinal tract of a patient with CDI to restore the natural intestinal
microflora. FMT is safe and effective treatment of recurrent CDI. FMT is
extensively described around the world, but to date only two randomized studies
confirming the effectiveness of FMT have been conducted. This method was also
applied in the treatment of diseases such as pseudomembranous colitis, ulcerative
colitis, Crohn's disease and irritable bowel syndrome. The review describes the
procedure for FMT and the current state of knowledge about the effectiveness of
FMT in the treatment of recurrent CDI.


PMID: 28345530 


201. United European Gastroenterol J. 2017 Mar;5(2):270-275. doi:
10.1177/2050640616658218. Epub 2016 Jul 8.

Validation of a tool predicting important findings on computed tomography among
Crohn's disease patients.

Govani SM(1), Waljee AK(2), Kocher KE(3), Swoger JM(4), Saul M(5), Higgins PD(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;
Veteran's Affairs Hospital, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (2)Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Veteran's Affairs Center
for Clinical Management Research, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (3)Department of Emergency 
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (4)Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (5)Department of
Bioinformatics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (6)Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Crohn's disease (CD) are frequently subjected to
computed tomography (CT) in the emergency department (ED). This young population 
is at higher risk of malignancy from radiation exposure.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to validate a decision tool predicting complications
(perforation, abscess or other serious finding) on imaging at two sites.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of CT outcomes among patients with
CD with ED visits at two tertiary care centers. Inclusion criteria were a CT of
the abdomen/pelvis with contrast and complete lab data (erythrocyte sedimentation
rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP)) within 24 hours of arrival at the
University of Michigan (UM) (2012-2013) and the University of Pittsburgh (UPMC)
(2009-2012). Sensitivity, negative predictive value (NPV), miss rate and CT
avoidance rate were calculated.
RESULTS: At UPMC (n = 210), the tool had a sensitivity of 88.9% and NPV of 98.0%,
potentially saving 47.1% from CT with a miss rate of 1.0%. At UM (n = 248), the
tool had a sensitivity of 90.9% and NPV of 96.0%, saving 40.3% from CT with a
miss rate of 1.6%.
CONCLUSION: A decision tool using CRP and ESR predicting CT outcomes among CD
patients performed well in an external validation, allowing providers to forgo CT
use with a low miss rate.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640616658218 
PMCID: PMC5349364
PMID: 28344795 


202. United European Gastroenterol J. 2017 Mar;5(2):261-269. doi:
10.1177/2050640616650062. Epub 2016 Jun 23.

Does calprotectin level identify a subgroup among patients suffering from
irritable bowel syndrome? Results of a prospective study.

Melchior C(1), Aziz M(2), Aubry T(3), Gourcerol G(4), Quillard M(5), Zalar A(3), 
Coëffier M(6), Dechelotte P(6), Leroi AM(4), Ducrotté P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France;
Department of Physiology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France; Research
Group ADEN - INSERM UMR 1073, Institute for Research and Innovation in
Biomedicine, Rouen, France. (2)Department of Pathology, Rouen University
Hospital, Rouen, France. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Rouen University
Hospital, Rouen, France. (4)Department of Physiology, Rouen University Hospital, 
Rouen, France; Research Group ADEN - INSERM UMR 1073, Institute for Research and 
Innovation in Biomedicine, Rouen, France. (5)Department of Biochemistry, Rouen
University Hospital, Rouen, France. (6)Research Group ADEN - INSERM UMR 1073,
Institute for Research and Innovation in Biomedicine, Rouen, France.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France;
Research Group ADEN - INSERM UMR 1073, Institute for Research and Innovation in
Biomedicine, Rouen, France.

BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome is a multifactorial disease. Although faecal
calprotectin has been shown to be a reliable marker of intestinal inflammation,
its role in irritable bowel syndrome remains debated.
OBJECTIVE: The aims of this prospective study were to select a subgroup of
irritable bowel syndrome patients and to characterise those patients with high
faecal calprotectin by systematic work-up.
METHODS: Calprotectin levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
test in consecutive irritable bowel syndrome patients fulfilling Rome III
criteria in whom normal colonoscopy and appropriate tests had excluded organic
disease. Calprotectin levels were compared in irritable bowel syndrome patients, 
healthy controls and patients with active and quiescent Crohn's disease. When the
calprotectin level was higher than 50 µg/g, the absence of ANCA/ASCA antibodies
and a normal small bowel examination were required to confirm irritable bowel
syndrome diagnosis. Additional explorations included assessment of irritable
bowel syndrome severity, anxiety and depression, impact on quality of life,
glucose and fructose breath tests, rectal distension test by barostat and
quantitative and qualitative assessment of inflammation on colonic biopsies.
RESULTS: Among the 93 irritable bowel syndrome patients (73% women; 66.7% with
diarrhoea) recruited, 34 (36.6%) had reproducibly elevated calprotectin. Although
they tended to be older than those with normal calprotectin (P = 0.06), there
were no other differences between the two groups. When elevated, calprotectin was
correlated with age (P = 0.03, r = 0.22).
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated faecal calprotectin was observed in one third of patients
in this series, without any significant association with a specific clinical
phenotype (except age) or specific abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640616650062 
PMCID: PMC5349360
PMID: 28344794 


203. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 23. pii: S1542-3565(17)30320-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.042. [Epub ahead of print]

Asthma is Associated With Subsequent Development of Inflammatory Bowel Disease: a
Population-based Case-Control Study.

Kuenzig ME(1), Barnabe C(2), Seow CH(3), Eksteen B(4), Negron ME(5), Rezaie A(6),
Panaccione R(7), Benchimol EI(8), Sadatsafavi M(9), Aviña-Zubieta JA(10), Kaplan 
GG(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada;
Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,
Canada; Synder Institute for Chronic Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Alberta, Canada; O'Brien Institute for Public Health, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (2)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department of Community Health Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; O'Brien Institute for Public Health,
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (3)Department of Medicine,
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department of Community Health
Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (4)Department of
Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Synder Institute for
Chronic Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (5)Department 
of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai, Los
Angeles, California, USA. (7)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (8)CHEO Inflammatory Bowel Disease Centre, Division of 
Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition, The Children's Hospital of Eastern
Ontario, Ottawa, Canada; Department of Pediatrics and School of Epidemiology,
Public Health and Preventive Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(9)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada. (10)Arthritis Research Canada, Division of Rheumatology, University of
British Columbia. BC, Canada. (11)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department of Community Health Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Synder Institute for Chronic Diseases,
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; O'Brien Institute for Public
Health, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Electronic address:
ggkaplan@ucalgary.ca.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Asthma and the inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) each arise
through complex interactions between genetic and environmental factors, and share
many environmental risk factors. We examined the association between asthma and
Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: We performed a population-based case-control study using health
administrative data from the province of Alberta, Canada. The odds of a diagnosis
of asthma preceding the diagnosis of either Crohn's disease (n=3087) or
ulcerative colitis (n=2377) were compared with the odds of diagnosis of asthma
among persons without IBD (n=402,800) using logistic regression. Effect measure
modification by age at diagnosis of IBD (16 years or less, 17-40 years, or older 
than 40 years) was tested using a likelihood ratio test.
RESULTS: A diagnosis of asthma was associated with increased odds of incident
Crohn's disease (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 1.45; 95% CI, 1.31-1.60). No effect
measure modification was observed for age at diagnosis for Crohn's disease
(P=.42). However, we observed effect measure modification by age at diagnosis for
ulcerative colitis (P=.0103), with an adjusted OR of 1.49 (95% CI, 1.08-2.07)
among individuals diagnosed at an age of 16 years or less (OR) and an adjusted OR
of 1.57 (95% CI, 1.31-1.89) among individuals diagnosed at an age older than 40
years. However, there was no association between asthma and ulcerative colitis
among individuals diagnosed between ages 17 and 40 (adjusted OR 1.05; 95% CI,
0.86-1.26).
CONCLUSION: In a population-based case-control study, we associated asthma with
Crohn's disease, as well as with early- and late-onset ulcerative colitis.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.042 
PMID: 28344063 


204. Epigenomics. 2017 Apr;9(4):527-538. doi: 10.2217/epi-2016-0155. Epub 2017 Mar 27.

Challenges for epigenetic research in inflammatory bowel diseases.

Kellermayer R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Children's Hospital, USDA/ARS Children's Nutrition
Research Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The human epigenome may link environmental exposures and commensal microbiota
changes to host pathology in respect to the developmental origins of inflammatory
bowel diseases (ulcerative colitis [UC] and Crohn's disease [more appropriately
Crohn disease, CD]). Genetic predisposition - prenatal, perinatal and pediatric
environmental influences - microbiome aberration (dysbiosis) and immune
dysregulation appear to be important elements in disease development, progression
and maintenance. The prevalence of combined genetic and epigenetic susceptibility
toward UC and CD is calculated herein to be as high as 2%, and approximately 1%
for UC and CD in highly developed countries, respectively. This review emphasizes
the significant challenges for epigenetic research in inflammatory bowel
diseases. Overcoming these challenges, however, could reveal unique opportunities
for disease prevention, treatment and possible cure.

DOI: 10.2217/epi-2016-0155 
PMID: 28343422 


205. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2017 Mar 27. pii:
/j/cclm.ahead-of-print/cclm-2016-1120/cclm-2016-1120.xml. doi:
10.1515/cclm-2016-1120. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel immunoassays for detection of CUZD1 autoantibodies in serum of patients
with inflammatory bowel diseases.

Farkona S, Soosaipillai A, Filippou P, Liaskos C, Bogdanos DP, Diamandis EP,
Blasutig IM.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic autoantibodies (PABs) are detected in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Their prevalence is higher in Crohn's disease
(CrD) than in ulcerative colitis (UC). Glycoprotein 2 (GP2) and, more recently,
CUB and zona pellucida-like domain-containing protein 1 (CUZD1) have been
identified as target autoantigens of PAB. The clinical utility of CUZD1
autoantibodies has only recently been assessed by indirect immunofluorescence
(IIF) assays. In this study, we developed and validated novel immunoassays for
the detection of CUZD1 autoantibodies.
METHODS: Recombinant CUZD1 protein was utilized as a solid-phase antigen for the 
development of two immunoassays for the detection of IgG and IgA CUZD1
autoantibodies. Serum samples from 100 patients with CrD, 100 patients with UC,
129 patients assessed for various autoimmune diseases (vADs) and 50 control
individuals were analyzed.
RESULTS: Two immunofluorometric assays for the detection of IgG and IgA
CUZD1-specific antibodies were developed. CUZD1 autoantibodies were detected in
12.5% (25/200) IBD patients, including 16% of patients with CrD and in 9% of
patients with UC (CrD vs. UC, p<0.05), compared with 3.1% (4/129) patients
suspected of having vADs (CrD vs. ADs, p<0.05; UC vs. ADs, p=0.08). CUZD1
autoantibody positivity was not found to be related to disease location, age of
disease onset or disease phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to describe novel IgA and IgG CUZD1
autoantibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. These immunoassays agree well
with standard IIF techniques and can be utilized in multicenter studies to
investigate the diagnostic and clinical utility of CUZD1 autoantibodies.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2016-1120 
PMID: 28343172 


206. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 22. pii: S1542-3565(17)30319-1. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.041. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of Thiopurines During Conception and Pregnancy not Associated With Adverse
Pregancy Outcomes or Health of Infants at 1 Year in a Prospective Study.

Kanis SL(1), de Lima-Karagiannis A(2), de Boer NK(3), van der Woude CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam , The Netherlands. Electronic address: s.kanis@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam , The Netherlands. (3)Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Most data on the safety of thiopurine therapy for inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD) during pregnancy come from retrospective studies, making it
difficult to adjust for confounding factors. We performed a prospective cohort
study to determine whether thiopurine use affects pregnancy outcomes or health
outcomes of children.
METHODS: We performed a prospective study of all women who visited the IBD
preconception outpatient clinic at our tertiary health center in The Netherlands 
from December 2008 through May 2016. Patients were counseled before pregnancy and
seen bimonthly during pregnancy. We collected and analyzed data on medication
use, as well as lifestyle and clinical factors, during conception and pregnancy. 
Pregnancy outcomes (live birth, spontaneous abortion, elective abortion, and
still birth), birth outcomes (gestational age, birth weight and congenital
abnormalities) and health outcomes of infants 1 year after birth were compared
between women who did and did not use a thiopurine during conception and
pregnancy. In addition, health outcomes of infants 1 year after birth were
compared with infants born to mothers without IBD from the same geographic
region.
RESULTS: Our study comprised 309 women with confirmed IBD (216 with Crohn's
disease, 85 with ulcerative colitis, and 8 with IBD unclassified). During the
study period, 311 pregnancies of 232 women resulted in a live birth; a thiopurine
was used during 108 (35%) pregnancies. After correction for diagnosis, fertility 
treatment, and disease activity, there was no association between thiopurine use 
and spontaneous abortions. Birth outcomes were similar between women who did and 
did not use a thiopurine. Among infants 1 year of age, there were no differences 
in median growth, number of infections, allergies, adverse reactions to
vaccinations, or chronic diseases between those born to women who did and did not
use a thiopurine, or between women with and without IBD.
CONCLUSION: In this prospective cohort study, we found no association between
maternal thiopurine use during pregnancy and increased spontaneous abortions,
adverse birth outcomes or adverse health outcomes of infants 1 year after birth.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.041 
PMID: 28342949 


207. Gastroenterology. 2017 Mar 22. pii: S0016-5085(17)30322-0. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.015. [Epub ahead of print]

Activation of Epithelial STAT1 by Interleukin 28 Controls Mucosal Healing in Mice
with Colitis and is Increased in Mucosa of Patients With Inflammatory Bowel
Disease.

Chiriac MT(1), Buchen B(2), Wandersee A(2), Hundorfean G(2), Günther C(2),
Bourjau Y(2), Doyle SE(3), Frey B(4), Ekici AB(5), Büttner C(5), Weigmann B(2),
Atreya R(6), Wirtz S(2), Becker C(2), Siebler J(2), Neurath MF(7).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Clinic 1, Department of Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen,
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany. Electronic address:
Mircea.Chiriac@uk-erlangen.de. (2)Medical Clinic 1, Department of Medicine,
University Hospital Erlangen, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen,
Germany. (3)ZymoGenetics, Inc., Seattle, WA 98102. (4)Department of Radiation
Oncology. (5)Core Unit Genomics - Institute of Human Genetics, University
Hospital Erlangen, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(6)Medical Clinic 1, Department of Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen,
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany; Ludwig Demling Endoscopy
Center of Excellence, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(7)Medical Clinic 1, Department of Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen,
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany; Ludwig Demling Endoscopy
Center of Excellence, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
Electronic address: Mircea.Chiriac@uk-erlangen.de.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We investigated the roles of interleukin 28A (also called
IL28A or interferon lambda 2) in intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) activation,
studying its effects in mouse models of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and
intestinal mucosal healing.
METHODS: Colitis was induced in C57BL/6JCrl mice (controls), mice with intestinal
epithelial cell-specific disruption of Stat1 (Stat1IEC-KO), mice with disruption 
of the interferon lambda receptor 1 gene (Il28ra-/-), and mice with disruption of
the interferon regulatory factor 3 gene (Irf3-/-), with or without disruption of 
Irf7 (Irf7-/-). We used high-resolution mini-endoscopy and in vivo imaging
methods to assess colitis progression. We used 3-dimensional small intestine and 
colon organoids, along with RNA-Seq and gene ontology methods, to characterize
the effects of IL28 effects on primary IECs. We studied the effects of IL28 on
the human intestinal cancer cell line Caco-2 in a wound-healing assay, and in
mice colon wounds. Colonic biopsies and resected tissue from patients with IBD
(n=62) and patients without colon inflammation (controls, n=23) were analyzed by 
quantitative PCR to measure expression of IL28A, IL28RA, and other related
cytokines; biopsy samples were also analyzed by immunofluorescence to identify
sources of IL28 production. IECs were isolated from patient tissues and incubated
with IL28; STAT1 phosphorylation was measured by immunoblots and confocal
imaging.
RESULTS: Lamina propria cells in colon tissues of patients with IBD, and mice
with colitis, had increased expression of IL28 compared with controls; levels of 
IL28R were increased in the colonic epithelium of patients with IBD patients and 
mice with colitis. Administration of IL28 induced phosphorylation of STAT1 in
primary human and mouse IECs, increasing with dose. Il28ra -/-, Irf3-/-,
Irf3-/-Irf7-/-, as well as Stat1IEC-KO mice, developed more severe colitis
following administration of dextran sulfate sodium than control mice, with
reduced epithelial restitution. Il28ra-/- and Stat1IEC-KO mice also developed
more severe colitis in response to oxazolone than control mice. We found IL28 to 
induce phosphorylation (activation) of STAT1 in epithelial cells, leading to
their proliferation in organoid culture. Administration of IL28 to mice with
induced colonic wounds promoted mucosal healing.
CONCLUSIONS: IL28 controls proliferation of IECs in mice with colitis and
accelerates mucosal healing by activating STAT1. IL28 might be developed as a
therapeutic agent for patients with IBD.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.03.015 
PMID: 28342759 


208. Int J Biol Macromol. 2017 Mar 23;101:502-517. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.03.100. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of enzymatic free radical scavengers in management of oxidative stress in
autoimmune disorders.

Srivastava S(1), Singh D(1), Patel S(1), Singh MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)University Institute of Pharmacy, Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur,
Chattissgarh, 492010, India. (2)University Institute of Pharmacy, Pt. Ravishankar
Shukla University, Raipur, Chattissgarh, 492010, India. Electronic address:
manjursu@gmail.com.

Autoimmune disorders are distinct with over production and accumulation of free
radicals due to its undisclosed genesis. The cause of numerous disorders as
cancer, arthritis, psoriasis, diabetes, alzheimer's, cardiovascular disease,
Parkinson's, respiratory distress syndrome, colitis, crohn's, pulmonary fibrosis,
obesity and ageing have been associated with immune dysfunction and oxidative
stress. In an oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species generally provoke the
series of oxidation at cellular level. The buildup of free radicals in turn
triggers various inflammatory cells causing release of various inflammatory
interleukins, cytokines, chemokines, and tumor necrosis factors which mediate
signal transduction and transcription pathways as nuclear factor- kappa B
(NF-κB), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3),
hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1α) and nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor
(Nrf2). The imbalance could only be combat by supplementing natural defensive
antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase and catalase. The efficiency of 
these enzymes is enhanced by use of colloidal carriers which include cellular
carriers, vesicular and particulate systems like erythrocytes, leukocytes,
platelets, liposomes, transferosomes, solid lipid nanoparticles, microspheres,
emulsions. Thus this review provides a platform for understanding importance of
antioxidant enzymes and its therapeutic applications in treatment of various
autoimmune disorders.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.03.100 
PMID: 28342757 


209. Int Immunol. 2017 Feb 1;29(2):49-58. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxx008.

Mesenchymal stromal cells and autoimmunity.

Pistoia V(1), Raffaghello L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Area, Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù, Viale San Paolo 15, 00146
Roma, Italy. (2)Laboratory of Oncology, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Via Gaslini 5,
16147 Genova, Italy.

Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are committed progenitors of mesodermal origin
that are found virtually in every organ and exhibit multilineage differentiation 
into osteocytes, adipocytes and chondrocytes. MSCs also mediate a wide spectrum
of immunoregulatory activities that usually dampen innate and adaptive immune
responses. These features have attracted interest in the perspective of
developing novel cell therapies for autoimmune disease. However, depending on the
microenvironmental conditions, MSCs may show a plastic behavior and switch to an 
immunostimulatory phenotype. After thorough characterization of the effects of
MSCs on the immune system, MSC cell therapy has been tested in animal models of
autoimmunity using different cell sources, protocols of in vitro expansion and
routes and schedules of administration. The pre-clinical results have been
encouraging in some models [e.g. Crohn's disease (CD), multiple sclerosis] and
heterogeneous in others (e.g. graft-versus-host disease, systemic lupus
erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis). Clinical trials have been carried out and
many are ongoing. As discussed, the results obtained are too preliminary to draw 
any conclusion, with the only exception of topical administration of MSCs in CD
that has proven efficacious. The mechanism of action of infused MSCs is still
under investigation, but the apparent paradox of a therapeutic effect achieved in
spite of the very low number of cells reaching the target organ has been solved
by the finding that MSC-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) closely mimic the
therapeutic activity of MSCs in pre-clinical models. These issues are critically 
discussed in view of the potential clinical use of MSC-derived EVs.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2017. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxx008 
PMID: 28338763 


210. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Mar 25;20(3):266-269.

[Diagnosis and treatment of duodenal injury and fistula].

[Article in Chinese]

Gong K(1), Guo S(1), Wang K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province,
Kunming 650032, China. (2)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First
Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical University, Kunming 650031, China.
wangkunhua@medmail.com.cn.

Duodenal injury is a serious abdominal organ injury. Duodenal fistula is one of
the most serious complications in gastrointestinal surgery, which is concerned
for its critical status, difficulty in treatment and high mortality. Thoracic and
abdominal compound closed injury and a small part of open injury are common
causes of duodenal injury. Iatrogenic or traumatic injury, malnutrition, cancer, 
tuberculosis, Crohn's disease etc. are common causes of duodenal fistula,
however, there has been still lacking of ideal diagnosis and treatment by now.
The primary treatment strategy of duodenal fistula is to determine the cause of
disease and its key point is prevention, including perioperative parenteral and
enteral nutrition support, improvement of hypoproteinemia actively, avoidance of 
stump ischemia by excessive separate duodenum intraoperatively, performance of
appropriate duodenum stump suture to ensure the stump blood supply, and avoidance
of postoperative input loop obstruction, postoperative stump bleeding or hematoma
etc. Once duodenal fistula occurs, a simple and reasonable operation can be
selected and performed after fluid prohibition, parenteral and enteral nutrition,
acid suppression, enzyme inhibition, anti-infective treatment and maintaining
water salt electrolyte and acid-base balance. Double tube method, duodenal
decompression and peritoneal drainage can reduce duodenal fistula-related
complications, and then reduce the mortality, which can save the lives of
patients.


PMID: 28338158 


211. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2017 Mar;26(1):29-35. doi:
10.15403/jgld.2014.1121.261.gpr.

G Protein-Coupled Receptor 30 (GPR30) Expression Pattern in Inflammatory Bowel
Disease Patients Suggests its Key Role in the Inflammatory Process. A Preliminary
Study.

Włodarczyk M(1), Sobolewska-Włodarczyk A(2), Cygankiewicz AI(3), Jacenik D(3),
Piechota-Polańczyk A(2), Stec-Michalska K(2), Krajewska WM(3), Fichna J(4),
Wiśniewska-Jarosińska M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Medical University of Lodz, Faculty of Biology and
Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
dr.mwlodarczyk@gmail.com. (2)Department of Biochemistry, Medical University of
Lodz;Department of Gastroenterology,Faculty of Biology and Environmental
Protection, University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland. (3)Department of Cytobiochemistry, 
Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Lodz,
Poland. (4)Department of Biochemistry, Medical University of Lodz, Faculty of
Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: G protein-coupled receptor 30 (GPR30) is a recently
de-orphanized estrogen receptor that mediates the effects of estrogens on
different cells. It has been postulated that in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD)
activation of GPR30 blocks the pathways dependent on pro-inflammatory cytokines. 
The aim of our study was to investigate GPR30 expression in patients with IBD and
its potential implication in future therapies.
METHODS: Fifty-seven patients were enrolled in our study: 20 subjects with
Crohn's disease (CD), 22 with ulcerative colitis (UC) and 15 controls. In each
subject, biopsies were taken from various left-colonic locations. Gene and
protein expression of GPR30 was quantified using real time RT-PCR or Western
blot.
RESULTS: GPR30 mRNA and protein expression were detected in all tested colonic
tissues. No significant differences in GPR30 gene expression were observed. In
non-inflamed areas, GPR30 protein was strongly increased in CD patients, but
moderately in UC patients (p= 0.014 and p=0.143, respectively, vs. controls). In 
CD patients, a significantly lower GPR30 protein content in inflamed than in
non-inflamed tissue was observed (p=0.039). The change was independent of patient
gender.
CONCLUSION: Our observations indicate that GPR30 may play a role in the
development and progression of inflammatory lesions in IBD, thus affecting
disease severity, and consequently IBD treatment. Therefore, GPR30 may become an 
attractive target for novel anti-IBD drugs, particularly in CD.


PMID: 28338111 


212. Inflammopharmacology. 2017 Mar 24. doi: 10.1007/s10787-017-0337-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

The impact of mangiferin from Belamcanda chinensis on experimental colitis in
rats.

Szandruk M(1), Merwid-Ląd A(2), Szeląg A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Wroclaw Medical University, Mikulicza-Radeckiego
2, 50-345, Wrocław, Poland. marta.szandruk@umed.wroc.pl. (2)Department of
Pharmacology, Wroclaw Medical University, Mikulicza-Radeckiego 2, 50-345,
Wrocław, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) [including Crohn's disease (CD) and 
ulcerative colitis (UC)] constitutes an important clinical problem. The
pathogenesis of IBD remains unclear. It is believed that immune dysfunction,
inflammatory mediators and oxidative damage play crucial roles in development of 
IBD. The condition is clinically associated with symptoms ranging from mild to
severe during relapses, depending on the affected segment of the gastrointestinal
tract. Bloody diarrhea with mucus, abdominal pain, weight loss and anemia are
initial symptoms of both CD and UC. Differences between diseases become more
evident in time, along with the development of intestinal and extraintestinal
complications. Mangiferin (1,3,6,7-tetrahydroxyxanthone-C-2-β-D-glucoside), a
natural polyphenol in plants, exerts antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects
making it an interesting option for the treatment of inflammatory pathologies
associated with oxidative stress in humans, such as IBD.
PURPOSE: The aim of the current study was to elucidate the impact of mangiferin
on colon tissues in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzensulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in
rats.
METHODS: Mangiferin was obtained from Belamcanda chinensis rhizomes by a
multistage process. Groups of rats were pre-treated with 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg of
mangiferin, or with distilled water administered intragastrically for 16 days. An
ethanol solution of TNBS or saline was given rectally on the day 15 of the
experiment. The experiment was terminated on the day 17. The colon was removed,
cleaned, weighed and examined macro- and microscopically. Determination of tumor 
necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 17 (IL-17), malondialdehyde (MDA) levels
and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were performed spectrophotometrically in 
homogenates of colon tissues.
RESULTS: Rats in the TNBS group developed symptoms of colitis, including: body
weight loss, colon mass index increase and damage of intestinal tissues with
concomitant increase in TNF-α, IL-17, MDA levels and decreased SOD activity. In
non-TNBS-treated rats mangiferin did not cause any changes of studied parameters.
Pre-treatment with mangiferin exerted a protective effect, reducing the intensity
of damage caused by TNBS. Mangiferin at the doses of 30 and 100 mg/kg reduced the
macro- and microscopic damage score and the MDA level in colon tissues. Only at
the dose of 100 mg/kg, mangiferin decreased TNF-α and IL-17 concentrations, and
SOD activity in colon tissues.
CONCLUSION: Mangiferin attenuates inflammatory changes of colon tissues in
experimental, TNBS-induced colitis in rats. Protective effect exerted by
mangiferin depends primarily on its anti-inflammatory activity and secondarily on
its antioxidant properties.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-017-0337-0 
PMID: 28337639 


213. JAAD Case Rep. 2017 Mar 9;3(2):110-112. doi: 10.1016/j.jdcr.2017.01.012.
eCollection 2017.

Intractable pyoderma gangrenosum in a Crohn's disease patient on vedolizumab.

Yeh JE(1), Tsiaras WG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts;
Department of Dermatology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts;
Angiogenesis and Wound Healing Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdcr.2017.01.012 
PMCID: PMC5347515
PMID: 28337471 


214. Prz Gastroenterol. 2017;12(1):55-59. doi: 10.5114/pg.2016.64601. Epub 2016 Dec
16.

Body composition as an indicator of the nutritional status in children with newly
diagnosed ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease - a prospective study.

Więch P(1), Binkowska-Bury M(1), Korczowski B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Nursing and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Rzeszow, Rzeszow, Poland; Centre for Medical and Natural Sciences Research and
Innovation, University of Rzeszow, Rzeszow, Poland. (2)Paediatric Department,
State Hospital, Medical College, University of Rzeszow, Rzeszow, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of nutritional status disorders in children with
ulcerative colitis (UC) is much lower than in the case of Crohn's disease (CD).
The largest variability in the components of body composition occurs at the time 
of a new diagnosis and in periods of disease exacerbation.
AIM: Assessment of body composition in children with UC and CD.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The preliminary study included 59 children with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (34 children with UC vs. 25 children with CD)
aged 4-18 years. The final analysis included 26 newly diagnosed children (16
children with UC vs. 10 children with CD). The evaluation of body composition was
conducted by means of BIA-101 bioimpedance analyser.
RESULTS: Decreased values of lean mass were found in children with newly
diagnosed IBD (UC: 41.13 kg vs. control group: 42.06 kg; CD: 35.50 kg vs. control
group: 45.50 kg). After a year interval, an increase in fat (UC 1: 7.67 kg vs. UC
2: 10.33 kg; CD 1: 7.36 kg vs. CD 2: 9.47 kg) as well as lean body mass (UC 1:
35.22 kg vs. UC 2: 39.00 kg; CD 1: 35.99 kg vs. CD 2: 42.41 kg) was found in
children.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with newly diagnosed IBD were highly vulnerable to
nutritional status disturbances. The increase in fat and lean body mass in an
annual interval may be due to the treatment regime and control of the children.

DOI: 10.5114/pg.2016.64601 
PMCID: PMC5360660
PMID: 28337238 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


215. Prz Gastroenterol. 2017;12(1):44-48. doi: 10.5114/pg.2016.64746. Epub 2016 Dec
20.

Adalimumab for endoscopic and histopathological mucosal healing in paediatric
patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease.

Szymanska E(1), Dadalski M(2), Grajkowska W(3), Szymanska S(3), Pronicki M(3),
Kierkus J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Nutrition and Metabolic Disorders, Children's
Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw, Poland. (2)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology, and Feeding Disorders, Children's Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw, 
Poland. (3)Department of Pathology, Children's Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw,
Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Deep remission, defined as clinical remission with mucosal healing 
(MH), with anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α agents is a new target for therapy 
in Crohn's disease (CD). Provided that the efficacy of infliximab (IFX) for
induction of MH in CD has been demonstrated, there are much less data for
adalimumab (ADA), and none concerning MH on histopathological examination.
AIM: To assess the impact of biological therapy with ADA on both endoscopic and
histopathological MH in paediatric patients with CD.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Twenty-three children (10 boys and 13 girls) aged 13.0 ±9.3
years with moderate to severely active CD diagnosed at the mean age of 5.5 ±0.83 
years were included into the study. Seven (30.4%) patients had been previously
treated with infliximab and switched to ADA due to intolerance or loss of
response. Colonoscopy and gastroscopy with sample collection were performed in
all patients before and after induction treatment with ADA. Clinical activity of 
the disease was assessed using the Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index
(PCDAI), and the endoscopic activity was scored using the Simple Endoscopic Score
(SES-CD). Histological changes were evaluated by a self-adapted numerical scoring
system.
RESULTS: Four (17.4%) patients reached clinical remission (PCDAI ≤ 10). When
comparing data at baseline and at a week after ADA treatment, a significant
decrease was observed in median PCDAI and in SES-CD score between the initial and
control colonoscopies. We reported a decrease in histological scale, which was
not statistically significant. A correlation was found between PCDAI and SES-CD
score.
CONCLUSIONS: Biological therapy with ADA has a positive impact on endoscopic
mucosal healing in paediatric patients with CD, which is not associated with
histological evidence of suppression of inflammation. Endoscopic MH correlates
better than microscopic one with clinical remission.

DOI: 10.5114/pg.2016.64746 
PMCID: PMC5360663
PMID: 28337236 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


216. Prz Gastroenterol. 2017;12(1):6-16. doi: 10.5114/pg.2016.64037. Epub 2016 Nov 29.

Health-related quality of life assessment among patients with inflammatory bowel 
diseases after surgery - review.

Bączyk G(1), Formanowicz D(2), Gmerek Ł(3), Krokowicz P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nursing Practise, Faculty of Health Sciences, Poznan University 
of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland. (2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and
Laboratory Medicine, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(3)Department of General and Colorectal Surgery, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.

Aim of the work was to review systematically the published literature addressing 
whether quality of life (QoL) and health-related QoL (HRQoL) are influenced by
surgery among patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Electronic
databases and published articles were searched to identify relevant studies
published in the years 1990-2015. Then, a multistep selection was undertaken to
identify articles that met specific selection criteria, such us specific
key-words (IBD, HRQoL, ulcerative colitis (UC), Crohn's disease (CD), and
surgery), and the population was assessed (studies concerning patients < 18 years
old were excluded). The review included 27 studies that were evaluated in the
context of the influence of surgery on QoL and HRQoL. Concluding, with the
increase in the incidence of IBD, monitoring of QoL is an important indicator of 
the health effects at each stage of the surgical treatment.

DOI: 10.5114/pg.2016.64037 
PMCID: PMC5360659
PMID: 28337230 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


217. Stem Cells Int. 2017;2017:8482326. doi: 10.1155/2017/8482326. Epub 2017 Feb 28.

Gut Mesenchymal Stromal Cells in Immunity.

Messina V(1), Buccione C(2), Marotta G(2), Ziccheddu G(2), Signore M(2), Mattia
G(2), Puglisi R(2), Sacchetti B(2), Biancone L(3), Valtieri M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious, Parasitic and Immune-Dependent Diseases, Istituto
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of Hematology, Oncology and
Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(3)Gastroenterology Unit, Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy. (4)Department of
Hematology, Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, 
Italy; Sbarro Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine and Center of 
Biotechnology, College of Science and Technology, Temple University,
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), first found in bone marrow (BM), are the
structural architects of all organs, participating in most biological functions. 
MSCs possess tissue-specific signatures that allow their discrimination according
to their origin and location. Among their multiple functions, MSCs closely
interact with immune cells, orchestrating their activity to maintain overall
homeostasis. The phenotype of tissue MSCs residing in the bowel overlaps with
myofibroblasts, lining the bottom walls of intestinal crypts (pericryptal) or
interspersed within intestinal submucosa (intercryptal). In Crohn's disease,
intestinal MSCs are tightly stacked in a chronic inflammatory milieu, which
causes their enforced expression of Class II major histocompatibility complex
(MHC). The absence of Class II MHC is a hallmark for immune-modulator and
tolerogenic properties of normal MSCs and, vice versa, the expression of HLA-DR
is peculiar to antigen presenting cells, that is, immune-activator cells.
Interferon gamma (IFNγ) is responsible for induction of Class II MHC expression
on intestinal MSCs. The reversal of myofibroblasts/MSCs from an immune-modulator 
to an activator phenotype in Crohn's disease results in the formation of a
fibrotic tube subverting the intestinal structure. Epithelial metaplastic areas
in this context can progress to dysplasia and cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/8482326 
PMCID: PMC5350335
PMID: 28337224 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


218. N Z Med J. 2017 Mar 24;130(1452):68-70.

Clostridium difficile infections in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Chieng M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Medicine, North Shore Hospital, Waitemata DHB, Auckland.

Case report of a 23-year-old male presenting with a severe flare of Crohn's
disease, exacerbated by community-acquired infection with Clostridium difficile. 
This case outlines the association between C. difficile infection and
inflammatory bowel disease, as both a mimic and a precipitant of flares. The
discussion concerns the latest literature consensus on assessment and management 
of Clostridium difficile infection in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.


PMID: 28337044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Nil.


219. Biochem Pharmacol. 2017 Mar 20. pii: S0006-2952(17)30159-4. doi:
10.1016/j.bcp.2017.03.013. [Epub ahead of print]

A novel pyrazole-containing indolizine derivative suppresses NF-κB activation and
protects against TNBS-induced colitis via a PPAR-γ-dependent pathway.

Fu Y(1), Ma J(1), Shi X(1), Song XY(2), Yang Y(1), Xiao S(1), Li J(1), Gu WJ(3), 
Huang Z(4), Zhang J(1), Chen J(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Sciences and
Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Life Sciences, State Key
Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210023, PR China. (2)College of Chemistry and Materials
Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023, PR China. (3)College of
Chemistry and Materials Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023, PR
China. Electronic address: gwjchem2012@126.com. (4)State Key Laboratory of
Analytical Chemistry for Life Sciences and Collaborative Innovation Center of
Chemistry for Life Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical
Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, PR
China. Electronic address: zhenhuang@nju.edu.cn. (5)State Key Laboratory of
Analytical Chemistry for Life Sciences and Collaborative Innovation Center of
Chemistry for Life Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical
Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, PR
China. Electronic address: jnchen@nju.edu.cn.

The nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated activation of macrophages plays a key role
in mucosal immune responses in Crohn's disease (CD). Moreover, increasing
evidence shows that the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) exerts satisfactory anti-inflammatory effects in experimental
colitis models, mostly by suppressing NF-κB-mediated macrophage activation.
Therefore, exploring therapeutic strategies to activate PPAR-γ and inhibit the
NF-κB pathway in colonic macrophages holds great promise for the treatment of CD.
In this study, five novel pyrazole-containing indolizine derivatives (B1, B2, B3,
B4 and B5) were successfully synthesized and characterized, and their
anti-inflammatory activities for CD treatment were also investigated. Among the
five compounds, compound B4 effectively decreased the NF-κB-mediated production
of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. 
Moreover, compound B4 significantly ameliorated 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic
acid (TNBS)-induced mouse colitis symptoms, including body weight loss, colonic
pathological damage and inflammatory cell infiltration. The results of western
blotting and luciferase reporter assays indicated that compound B4 activated
PPAR-γ and subsequently suppressed NF-κB activation. Conversely, the addition of 
the PPAR-γ antagonist GW9662 abrogated the anti-inflammatory effects of compound 
B4 both in vitro and in vivo. In summary, compound B4 activated the PPAR-γ
pathway to inhibit downstream NF-κB signaling, which alleviated experimental
colitis. Thus, this compound may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for
patients with CD.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.03.013 
PMID: 28336257 


220. Nutrients. 2017 Mar 20;9(3). pii: E308. doi: 10.3390/nu9030308.

Oral Cyanocobalamin is Effective in the Treatment of Vitamin B12 Deficiency in
Crohn's Disease.

Gomollón F(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Gargallo CJ(5,)(6), Muñoz JF(7), Vicente R(8), Lue
A(9,)(10), Mir A(11), García-Alvarado M(12), Gracia M(13), García-López S(14).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Clínico Universitario "Lozano Blesa", Avenue San Juan Bosco, 15,
Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. fgomollon@gmail.com. (2)Aragón Health Research
Institute (IIS Aragón), Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. fgomollon@gmail.com.
(3)University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. fgomollon@gmail.com.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red, Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas 
(CIBEREHD), Madrid 28029, Spain. fgomollon@gmail.com. (5)Hospital Clínico
Universitario "Lozano Blesa", Avenue San Juan Bosco, 15, Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, 
Spain. carlajerusalen@hotmail.com. (6)Aragón Health Research Institute (IIS
Aragón), Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. carlajerusalen@hotmail.com. (7)Hospital
Universitario de Salamanca, Salamanca 37007, Castilla y León, Spain.
jmunozn@gmail.com. (8)Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza 50009,
Aragón, Spain. raquelvicentelidon@gmail.com. (9)Hospital Clínico Universitario
"Lozano Blesa", Avenue San Juan Bosco, 15, Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain.
alberto.lue@hotmail.com. (10)Aragón Health Research Institute (IIS Aragón),
Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. alberto.lue@hotmail.com. (11)Hospital Ernest Lluch
Martin, Calatayud, Zaragoza 50299, Aragón, Spain. albertomirsubias@gmail.com.
(12)Hospital Virgen de la Concha, Zamora 49022, Castilla y León, Spain.
mery_271@hotmail.com. (13)Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza 50009,
Aragón, Spain. tagaru@hotmail.com. (14)Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet,
Zaragoza 50009, Aragón, Spain. sgarcia.lopez@gmail.com.

Cobalamin deficiency is common in patients with Crohn's disease (CD).
Intramuscular cobalamin continues to be the standard therapy for the deficiency
and maintenance treatment in these patients, although oral route has been
demonstrated to be effective in other pathologies with impaired absorption. Our
aims were to evaluate the efficacy of oral therapy in the treatment of cobalamin 
deficiency and in long-term maintenance in patients with Crohn's disease. We
performed a multicenter retrospective cohort study that included 94 patients with
Crohn's disease and cobalamin deficiency. Seventy-six patients had B12 deficiency
and 94.7% of them normalized their cobalamin levels with oral treatment. The most
used dose was 1 mg/day, but there were no significant differences in treatment
effectiveness depending on the dose used (≥1 mg/24 h vs. <1 mg/24 h). Eighty-two 
patients had previous documented B12 deficiency and were treated with oral B12 to
maintain their correct cobalamin levels. After a mean follow-up of 3 years, the
oral route was effective as maintenance treatment in 81.7% of patients. A lack of
treatment adherence was admitted by 46.6% of patients in who the oral route
failed. In conclusion, our study shows that oral cyanocobalamin provides
effective acute and maintenance treatment for vitamin B12 deficiency caused by CD
with or without ileum resection.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9030308 
PMCID: PMC5372971
PMID: 28335526 


221. Hum Mol Genet. 2017 Mar 9. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddx092. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of genetic variants affecting vitamin D receptor binding and
associations with autoimmune disease.

Gallone G(1,)(2,)(3), Haerty W(1,)(2), Disanto G(2), Ramagopalan SV(4,)(5),
Ponting CP(1,)(2,)(6), Berlanga-Taylor AJ(7,)(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Functional Genomics Unit, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3PT UK. (2)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of
Oxford, South Parks Road, OX1 3PT UK. (3)Present address: Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10 1SA UK. (4)Real-World
Evidence, Evidera, London, W6 8DL UK. (5)Present address: Centre for
Observational Research and Data Sciences, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Uxbridge UB8 1DH 
UK. (6)Present address: MRC Human Genetics Unit, The Institute of Genetics and
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh,Western General Hospital, Crewe Road,
Edinburgh EH4 2XU UK. (7)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Nuffield
Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN UK.
(8)CGAT, MRC Functional Genomics Unit, University of Oxford, Department of
Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, Oxford OX1 3PT UK. (9)Present address: MRC-PHE 
Centre for Environment and Health, Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics.

Large numbers of statistically significant associations between sentinel SNPs and
case-control status have been replicated by genome-wide association studies.
Nevertheless, few underlying molecular mechanisms of complex disease are
currently known. We investigated whether variation in binding of a transcription 
factor, the vitamin D receptor (VDR) whose activating ligand vitamin D has been
proposed as a modifiable factor in multiple disorders, could explain any of these
associations. VDR modifies gene expression by binding DNA as a heterodimer with
the Retinoid X receptor (RXR).We identified 43,332 genetic variants significantly
associated with altered VDR binding affinity (VDR-BVs) using a high-resolution
(ChIP-exo) genome-wide analysis of 27 HapMap lymphoblastoid cell lines. VDR-BVs
are enriched in consensus RXR::VDR binding motifs, yet most fell outside of these
motifs, implying that genetic variation often affects binding affinity only
indirectly. Finally, we compared 341 VDR-BVs replicating by position in multiple 
individuals against background sets of variants lying within VDR-binding regions 
that had been matched in allele frequency and were independent with respect to
linkage disequilibrium. In this stringent test, these replicated VDR-BVs were
significantly (q < 0.1) and substantially (2-fold) enriched in genomic intervals 
associated with autoimmune and other diseases, including inflammatory bowel
disease, Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis. The approach's validity is
underscored by RXR::VDR motif sequence being predictive of binding strength and
being evolutionarily constrained.Our findings are consistent with altered
RXR::VDR binding contributing to immunity-related diseases. Replicated VDR-BVs
associated with these disorders could represent causal disease risk alleles whose
effect may be modifiable by vitamin D levels.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddx092 
PMID: 28335003 


222. Hum Mol Genet. 2017 Apr 15;26(8):1465-1471. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddx050.

Downstream targets of GWAS-detected genes for breast, lung, and prostate and
colon cancer converge to G1/S transition pathway.

Gorlova OY, Demidenko EI, Amos CI, Gorlov IP.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) identified over 500 single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) influencing cancer risk. It is logical to expect the
cancer-associated genes to cluster in pathways directly involved in
carcinogenesis, e.g. cell cycle. Nevertheless, analyses of the GWAS-detected
cancer risk genes usually show no or weak enrichment by known cancer genes.We
hypothesized that GWAS-detected cancer risk-associated genes function as upstream
regulators of the genes directly involved in carcinogenesis. We have analyzed
four common cancers: breast, colon, lung, and prostate. To identify downstream
targets of GWAS-detected cancer risk genes we used MedScan, which is a text
mining tool offered by PathwayStudio. We also used data on protein/protein
interactions reported by BioGRID database. Among all identified targets we have
selected common downstream targets. A gene was considered a common downstream
target if it was a downstream target for at least three GWAS-detected genes for a
given cancer type. Common downstream targets were identified separately for each 
cancer type. We found that common downstream targets for all four cancer types
were enriched by cell cycle genes, more specifically, the genes involved in G1/S 
transition. Common downstream targets for bipolar disorder, Crohn's disease, and 
type 2 diabetes did not show G1/S transition enrichment.The results of this
analysis suggest that many cancer risk genes function as upstream regulators of
the genes directly involved in G1/S transition and exert their risk effects by
reducing threshold for G1/S transition, elevating the background level of cell
proliferation and cancer risk.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddx050 
PMID: 28334950 


223. Clin Imaging. 2017 Mar 16;43:175-179. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2017.03.010. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Is there a role of magnetic resonance imaging in deciding to stop anti-tumor
necrosis factor treatment in ileal Crohn's disease?

Gallego JC(1), Echarri A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Radiology Department, Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de Ferrol, Ferrol,
Spain. Electronic address: josecarlos.gallego.ojea@sergas.es. (2)Gastroenterology
Department, Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de Ferrol, Ferrol, Spain.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to assess the ability of magnetic resonance
enterography to predict the evolution of patients in whom anti-tumor necrosis
factor-α therapy was suspended.
METHODS: A prospective study of patients with ileal Crohn's disease was
performed.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients were included. Patients who later relapsed showed
higher magnetic resonance scores than those who did not relapse (4.2 vs. 2.5,
respectively; p<0.02). The area under the receiving-operating characteristics
curve was 0.755 when discriminating patients who relapsed.
CONCLUSIONS: Magnetic resonance enterography should be taken into account when
deciding the withdrawal of anti-tumor necrosis factor-α in patients with Crohn's 
disease.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2017.03.010 
PMID: 28334618 


224. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2017 Mar 21;42(249):121-124.

[Intestinal endometriosis - a case report].

[Article in Polish]

Krzemiński S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Małopolska District Medical Commission of the Ministry of Internal Affair in
Cracow, Poland.

Endometriosis intestines due to its non-specific symptoms can pose diagnostic
problems, a lack of or incorrect treatment worsens the quality of life, sometimes
leading to serious complications. The differential diagnosis of abdominal pain,
especially in patients of reproductive age should be taken disease into account. 
Often abdominal pain in young women are classified as a functional
gastrointestinal disorder, and only carefully collected intelligence allows you
to focus on the diagnosis of endometriosis, especially if the symptoms
significantly impair quality of life.A CASE REPORT: A woman 32 year old who was
admitted to the department of gastroenterology because of increasing pain in the 
abdomen. Due to the deteriorating condition of the patient, the characteristics
of mechanical obstruction on imaging studies was transferred to the surgical ward
with suspected Crohn's disease. She was treated surgically. Histopathological
examination found endometriosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Endometriosis outside the sex system can lead to serious
complications.


PMID: 28333904 


225. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 Mar 22. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001580.
[Epub ahead of print]

The Incidence of Low Seroimmunity to Hepatitis B Virus in Children with
Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Watts A(1), Bennett WE, Molleston JP, Gupta SK, Croffie JM, Waseem S, McFerron
BA, Steiner SJ, Kumar S, Vanderpool CP, Hon EC, Bozic MA, Subbarao GC,
Pfefferkorn MD.

Author information: 
(1)*Riley Hospital for Children at Indiana University Health, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and
Nutrition, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA †Riley
Hospital for Children at Indiana University Health, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Section of Pediatric and Adolescent Comparative Effectiveness Research;
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) often receive
immunosuppressive therapy which may make them vulnerable to infections such as
hepatitis B. We hypothesized that hepatitis B virus (HBV) titers are low in the
vaccinated pediatric IBD population. The aims of our study were to identify the
incidence of lower titers of hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb) and determine
which patient factors may be associated with lower HBsAb titers.
METHODS: Patients with diagnosis of IBD, ages 5-18 years, were prospectively
enrolled. Patients were confirmed to have had a full series of hepatitis B
vaccination. Quantitative serum HBsAb titers were measured and logistic
regression analysis with independent variables of age, gender, race, disease
phenotype, surgery, medications and a dependent variable of adequate HBsAb titers
(> 10 mIU/mL) was performed.
RESULTS: Of the 116 patients enrolled, 57 were male and 59 were female. 75
patients had a diagnosis of Crohn's disease; 32 had a diagnosis of ulcerative
colitis; and 9 patients had been diagnosed with indeterminate colitis. At the
time of the study, 15 patients were on corticosteroid, 66 on an immunomodulator, 
and 53 on a biologic. 60% of patients in the 5-10 year age group had protective
titers vs 22-27% in the older groups, p = 0.04. Only 28% of the 116 patients had 
HBsAb titers of more than 10mIU/ml. 20% of the patients on corticosteroids, 27%
on immunomodulators and 24% on biologics were found to be seroimmune.
CONCLUSION: Nearly two-thirds of pediatric IBD patients have low titers against
HBV. Titers were highest in the younger patients. No patient-specific variable,
such as the use of immunosuppressants, appeared to influence these low titers.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001580 
PMID: 28333769 


226. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 16. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001072. [Epub ahead of
print]

Treatment Persistence for Infliximab Versus Adalimumab in Crohn's Disease: A
14-Year Single-Center Experience.

Olivera P(1), Thiriet L, Luc A, Baumann C, Danese S, Peyrin-Biroulet L.

Author information: 
(1)*INSERM U954 and Department of Hepatogastroenterology, Nancy University
Hospital, Université de Lorraine, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France; †ESPRI-BioBase
Unit, PARC Clinical Research Support Facility, Nancy University Hospital, Nancy, 
France; and ‡Humanitas University, IBD Center, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Infliximab (IFX) and adalimumab (ADA) are widely used in the
treatment of patients with Crohn's disease (CD). There are few published data on 
the treatment persistence of IFX and ADA in patients with CD.
METHODS: We aimed to compare the persistence rates of IFX versus ADA as first-
and second-line tumor necrosis factor antagonist (anti-TNF), to identify factors 
potentially associated with persistence, and to evaluate reasons for treatment
withdrawal in CD patients. We performed a retrospective, single-center cohort
study of CD patients treated with IFX or ADA for at least 6 months between June
2002 and May 2016.
RESULTS: The median duration of follow-up was 5.4 years. For first-line anti-TNF 
agent, data on 487 patients with CD were analyzed. The mean (SD) duration of
persistence was 3.6 (3.1) years and 2.5 (2.0) years in the IFX and ADA subgroups,
respectively; the intergroup difference was not significant (P = 0.219). Factors 
associated with lower persistence were female sex (P = 0.0005) and stricturing
behavior (P = 0.008). For second-line anti-TNF agent, data on 134 patients were
analyzed. The mean (SD) duration of persistence was 2.4 (1.9) years and 2.6 (2.1)
years in the IFX and ADA subgroups, respectively; again, the intergroup
difference was not significant (P = 0.488). Age under 37.2 was the only factor
associated with lower persistence (P = 0.016) for second-line treatment with an
anti-TNF agent.
CONCLUSIONS: IFX and ADA show similar levels of persistence as first- and
second-line anti-TNF treatments. Female sex and stricturing behavior were
associated with poor persistence of first-line treatments, whereas age was the
only factor associated with poor persistence of second-line treatments.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001072 
PMID: 28333755 


227. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 16. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx039. [Epub ahead of
print]

Gammadelta T cells in Crohn's disease: a new player in the disease pathogenesis?

Ignacio CS(1), Sandvik AK(2), Bruland T(3), Andreu-Ballester JC(4).

Author information: 
(1)ignacio.catalan@ntnu.no Hospital Arnau de Vilanova de Valencia, Aparato
DigestivoValencia, Comunidad Valenciana, ES (+4798135353)Department of Cancer
Research and Molecular Medicine. Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research
(CEMIR), NTNU, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim,
NODepartment of Medicine (Gastroenterology).Levanger Hospital. Levanger, NO.
(2)arne.sandvik@ntnu.no Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine.
Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research (CEMIR); NTNU, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, NODepartment of Gastroenterology. St. Olav's
Hospital, Trondheim University Hospital, Trondheim, NO. (3)torunn.bruland@ntnu.no
Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine. NTNU, Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology, Trondheim, NO Clinic of Medicine, St.Olav's Hospital, 
Trondheim University Hospital, Trondheim, NO. (4)jcandreu@ono.com Research Unit. 
Hospital Arnau de Vilanova.Valencia, ES.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic relapsing systemic disease affecting the
gastrointestinal tract. An altered immune response to commensal intestinal
bacteria takes place in genetically predisposed individuals, resulting in chronic
inflammation in the gut. Several alterations in the innate immunity mechanisms
have been described in recent years. Thus, the study of the immunological aspects
of CD, specifically the role of lymphocytes, is a key element for understanding
the pathogenesis of the disease. Gammadelta T cells (γδ T cells) constitute only 
a small proportion of the lymphocytes that circulate in the blood and peripheral 
organs and they are present mainly in the epithelia, where they can constitute up
to 40% of intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) in the intestinal mucosa. Due to
their lack of MHC restriction and their unique plasticity and immune regulating
properties they are considered key cells in the first line of defense against
infections and in wound healing in the gut. Although there is growing
experimental and clinical evidence of their implication in inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD), including CD, their clinical relevance is still unclear. In this
review, we address the possible involvement of γδ T cells in the pathogenesis of 
CD, reviewing their role against infections and in inflammation and the current
evidence suggesting their implication in CD, offering a novel potential target
for immunotherapy in IBD.

Copyright © 2017 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by
Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx039 
PMID: 28333360 


228. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 16. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx040. [Epub ahead of
print]

Cancer risk in the Early Stages of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Korean patients:
A Nationwide Population-based Study.

Jung YS(1), Han M(2), Kim WH(3), Park S(4), Cheon JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung
Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department
of Public Health, Graduate School, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Institute of Gastroenterology, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (4)Department of Biostatistics,
Graduate School of Public Health, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Background and Aims: The association between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and
cancer remains poorly defined in Asian populations. Therefore, we conducted a
nationwide population-based study to determine the cancer risk in Korean patients
with IBD.
Methods: Using the National Health Insurance claims data, we collected data on
patients diagnosed with IBD (5,595 Crohn's disease [CD] and 10,049 ulcerative
colitis [UC]) from 2011 to 2014. Standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) of overall 
and site-specific cancers in IBD patients in comparison with the general
population were calculated.
Results: The overall cancer risk was higher in CD patients (SIR, 2.2; 95%
confidence interval, 1.5-3.0 in men and 3.3; 2.4-4.5 in women) and UC patients
(1.9; 1.6-2.3 in men and 1.9; 1.5-2.4 in women). There were significantly
increased risks for the following cancers: small bowel cancer (31.2; 3.8-112.8), 
colorectal cancer (CRC) (3.7; 1.6-7.2), and hematologic cancer (4.0; 1.1-10.3) in
men with CD; small bowel cancer (61.1; 7.4-220.6), CRC (4.7; 1.5-10.9), liver
cancer (15.3; 5.6-33.2), pancreatic cancer (8.6; 1.0-31.0), and hematologic
cancer (11.0; 3.6-25.7) in women with CD; CRC (2.1; 1.3-3.3) and cancer of
prostate (3.5; 2.1-5.5), brain/central nervous system (6.1; 1.3-17.9), and
thyroid (2.2; 1.1-3.9) in men with UC; and CRC (3.0; 1.5-5.3), cancer of liver
(4.4; 1.6-9.7) and cervix uteri (5.7; 2.4-11.1), and hematologic cancer (3.5;
1.1-8.1) in women with UC. Women with CD had an increased risk of non-Hodgkin
lymphoma (NHL) and leukemia. Women with UC had an increased risk of NHL.
Conclusions: Korean patients with IBD are at increased risk for overall,
intestinal, and hematologic cancer.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx040 
PMID: 28333358 


229. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 17. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx041. [Epub ahead of
print]

The time course of diagnostic delay in inflammatory bowel disease over the last
sixty years: an Italian multicentre study.

Cantoro L(1), Di Sabatino A(2), Papi C(3), Margagnoni G(1), Ardizzone S(4),
Giuffrida P(2), Giannarelli D(5), Massari A(4), Monterubbianesi R(1), Lenti
MV(2), Corazza GR(2), Kohn A(1).

Author information: 
(1)IBD Unit, San Camillo-Forlanini Hospital, Rome, Italy. (2)First Department of 
Internal Medicine, San Matteo Hospital Foundation, University of Pavia, Pavia,
Italy. (3)IBD Unit,San Filippo Neri Hospital, Rome, Italy. (4)Gastroenterology
Unit, Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Luigi Sacco University
Hospital, Italy. (5)Biostatistics Unit, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute,
Rome, Italy.

Background and Aims: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients are still
under-diagnosed or diagnosed with serious delay. We examined whether diagnostic
delay (DD) in IBD has changed over the last 60 years, and explored the risk
factors of longer DD.
Methods: 3392 IBD patients recorded in the registry of four IBD Italian centres
were divided according to the year of diagnosis into a historical cohort (HC:
1955-1984) and modern cohort (MC: 1985-2014). DD, i.e. time lapse between onset
of symptoms indicative of IBD and definitive diagnosis, was divided into four
sub-periods (0-6, 7-12, 13-24, >24 months) which were correlated with age and
disease location/behaviour at diagnosis.
Results: Median DD in IBD was 3.0months, it was significantly (p<0.0001) higher
in Crohn's disease (CD) (7.1months) than ulcerative colitis (UC) (2.0months), and
did not differ either between the HC and the MC or over the last three decades.
However, the proportion of patients with a DD>24months was significantly
(p<0.0001) higher in the HC (26.0%) than the MC (18.2%), and the same trend was
evident over the last three decades (1985-94: 19.9%; 1995-2004: 16.4%; 2005-2014:
13.9%; p=0.04). At logistic regression analysis, age at diagnosis >40years (CD:
odds ratio 1.73, 95%CI 1.31-2.28, p<0.0001; UC: 1.41, 95%CI 1.02-1.96, p=0.04),
and complicated disease at CD diagnosis (1.39, 95%CI 1.06-1.82, p=0.02) were
independently associated with a DD>24 months.
Conclusions: DD duration has not changed over the last 60 years in Italy,
however, IBD patients with a longer DD significantly decreased. Older age at
diagnosis and a complicated disease at CD diagnosis are risk factors for longer
DD.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx041 
PMID: 28333328 


230. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 17. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx021. [Epub ahead of
print]

Exposure-Efficacy Relationships for Vedolizumab Induction Therapy in Patients
with Ulcerative Colitis or Crohn's Disease.

Rosario M(1), French JL(2), Dirks NL(2), Sankoh S(1), Parikh A(1), Yang H(1),
Danese S(3), Colombel JF(4), Smyth M(5), Sandborn WJ(6), Feagan BG(7), Reinisch
W(8), Sands BE(4), Sans M(9), Fox I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda
Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Cambridge, MA, USA. (2)Metrum Research Group LLC,
Tariffville, CT, USA. (3)Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Milan, Italy. (4)Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY, USA. (5)Takeda
Development Centre Europe, Ltd, London, UK. (6)Division of Gastroenterology,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. (7)Robarts Research
Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada. (8)Department
Internal Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria, and
Department of Internal Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(9)Digestive Diseases Service, Centro Médico Teknon, Barcelona, Spain.

Background and Aims: A positive relationship between vedolizumab trough serum
concentrations and clinical outcomes in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) or 
Crohn's disease (CD) has been reported. Here we further explore exposure-efficacy
relationships for vedolizumab induction therapy in post hoc analyses of GEMINI
study data.
Methods: Vedolizumab trough concentrations at Week 6 or 10 were grouped in
quartiles and clinical outcome rates calculated. Exposure-efficacy relationships 
at Week 6 and potential baseline covariate effects were explored using logistic
regression and individual predicted cumulative average concentration through Week
6 (Caverage) as exposure measure.
Results: Higher vedolizumab concentrations were associated with higher clinical
remission rates; the exposure-efficacy relationship was steeper for UC than CD.
Unadjusted analyses overestimated the relationship; more so for CD. From
covariate-adjusted models, average probability of remission at Week 6 increased
by approximately 15% for UC and 10% for CD between Caverage values of 35 and 84
µg/ml (5th and 95th percentiles, respectively). On average, patients with higher 
albumin, lower faecal calprotectin (UC only), lower C-reactive protein (CD only),
and no prior tumour necrosis factor-α (TNFα) antagonist use had a higher
remission probability. Prior TNFα antagonist use had the greatest impact;
remission probability was approximately 10% higher in treatment-naïve patients.
Conclusions: Higher vedolizumab serum concentrations were associated with higher 
remission rates after induction therapy in patients with moderately to severely
active UC or CD. This relationship is impacted by several factors, including
prior TNFα antagonist use. Prospective studies are needed to assess vedolizumab
dose individualization and optimization.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx021 
PMID: 28333288 


231. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Mar 10. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx034. [Epub ahead of
print]

Anal neoplasia in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: Classification proposal,
epidemiology, carcinogenesis and risk management perspectives.

Wisniewski A(1,)(2), Fléjou JF(3), Siproudhis L(4), Abramowitz L(5), Svrcek M(3),
Beaugerie L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, AP-HP, Hôpital Saint-Antoine F-75012 and
GRC-UPMC 03, UPMC Univ Paris 06 F-75005, Paris, France. (2)Hôpital
Charles-Lemoyne and Université de Sherbrooke, Montréal, Canada. (3)Department of 
Pathology, AP-HP, Hôpital Saint-Antoine and INSERM UMRS 938 F-75012; UPMC Univ
Paris 06 F-75005, Paris, France. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, CHU
Pontchaillou 35033 Rennes Cedex, INSERM U991 and CIC 1414, Univ Rennes 1 Rennes, 
France. (5)Department of Gastroenterology and Proctology, CHU Bichat 75018,
Paris, France.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) may develop, similarly to
individuals from general population, rare cases of HPV-related anal canal
squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and their intra-epithelial precursor lesions, as
well as very rare cases of anal canal adenocarcinoma. Patients with chronic
perianal Crohn's disease (CD) are at substantial risk of developing SCC or
adenocarcinoma from the fistula-lining epithelium, as well as SCC or
adenocarcinoma arising from chronic anorectal ulcerations or strictures. Based on
this lesion stratification, we provide in this review tailored incidence
estimates and we propose an IBD-specific classification of all types of anal
neoplasia that may occur in patients with IBD. After reviewing putative
carcinogenesis of all types of neoplasia, we conclude that HPV vaccination could 
reduce the incidence of HPV-related lesions, while an anal screening program
related to these lesions is not mandatory on the sole basis of IBD. By contrast, 
we point out that all patients with chronic perianal CD should be explored in
depth, including biopsies under anesthesia and fistula curettage when necessary, 
in case of any change in anal symptom in particular new growing unexplained pain.
Finally, we conclude that there is an urgent need for elaborating and evaluating 
surveillance algorithms in patients with chronic perianal CD, in order to avoid
cancers with late diagnosis and poor prognosis.

Copyright © 2017 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by
Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx034 
PMID: 28333258 


232. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 24. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx031. [Epub ahead of
print]

Small Bowel Carcinomas in Coeliac or Crohn's Disease: Clinico-pathological,
Molecular and Prognostic Features. A Study from the Small Bowel Cancer Italian
Consortium.

Vanoli A(1,)(2), Sabatino AD(3), Furlan D(2), Klersy C(4), Grillo F(5), Fiocca
R(5), Mescoli C(6), Rugge M(6), Nesi G(7), Fociani P(8), Sampietro G(9),
Ardizzone S(10), Luinetti O(1), Calabrò A(11), Tonelli F(12), Volta U(13),
Santini D(14), Caio G(13), Giuffrida P(3), Elli L(15), Ferrero S(16), Latella
G(17), Ciardi A(18), Caronna R(19), Solina G(20), Rizzo A(21), Ciacci C(22),
D'Armiento FP(23), Salemme M(24), Villanacci V(24), Cannizzaro R(25), Canzonieri 
V(26), Bonetti LR(27), Biancone L(28), Monteleone G(28), Orlandi A(29),
Santeusanio G(29), Macciomei MC(30), D'Incà R(31), Perfetti V(32), Sandri G(33), 
Silano M(34), Florena AM(35), Giannone AG(35), Papi C(36), Coppola L(37), Usai
P(38), Maccioni A(39), Astegiano M(40), Migliora P(41), Manca R(1), Martino M(3),
Trapani D(2), Cerutti R(2), Alberizzi P(1), Riboni R(1), Sessa F(2), Paulli M(1),
Solcia E(1), Corazza GR(3).

Author information: 
(1)From: Departments of Molecular Medicine and Internal Medicine, San Matteo
Hospital, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. (2)Department of Surgical and
Morphological Sciences, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy. (3)From:
Departments of Internal Medicine, San Matteo Hospital, University of Pavia,
Pavia, Italy. (4)Biometry and Statistics Service, San Matteo Hospital, Pavia,
Italy. (5)Pathology Unit, Department of Surgical and Diagnostic Sciences, San
Martino/IST University Hospital, Genova, Italy. (6)Pathology Unit, Department of 
Medicine, University of Padua, Padua, Italy. (7)Division of Pathological Anatomy,
Department of Surgery and Translational Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy. (8)Units of Pathology, IBD Surgery and Gastroenterology, Luigi
Sacco University Hospital, Milan, Italy. (9)IBD Surgery, Luigi Sacco University
Hospital, Milan, Italy. (10)IBD Surgery and Gastroenterology Gastroenterology,
Luigi Sacco University Hospital, Milan, Italy. (11)Departments of Experimental
and Clinical Biomedical Sciences, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(12)Departments of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences and Surgery and 
Translational Medicine, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. (13)Divisions of
Gastroenterology, Sant'Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy. (14)Divisions of Gastroenterology and Pathology, Sant'Orsola-Malpighi
Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. (15)Center for Prevention and
Diagnosis of Coeliac Disease, Ca' Granda-Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan,
Italy. (16)Division of Pathology, Department of Biomedical, Surgical and Dental
Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. (17)Gastroenterology Unit,
Department of Life and Enviromental Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila,
Italy. (18)Departments of Radiological, Oncological, Pathological Sciences and,
Umberto I Hospital, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. (19)Departments of
Radiological, Oncological, Pathological Sciences and Surgical Sciences, Umberto I
Hospital, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. (20)Units of General Surgery,
Cervello Hospital, Palermo, Italy. (21)Units of General Surgery and Pathology,
Cervello Hospital, Palermo, Italy. (22)Department of Medicine and Surgery,
University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. (23)Department of Advanced Biomedical
Sciences, Federico II University of Naples, Naples, Italy. (24)Pathology Section,
Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy. (25)Departments of Gastroenterology,
National Cancer Institute, Aviano, Italy. (26)Departments of Gastroenterology and
Pathology, National Cancer Institute, Aviano, Italy. (27)Section of Pathology,
Department of Diagnostic Medicine and Public Health, University of Modena and
Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy. (28)Departments of Systems Medicine, University of 
Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. (29)Departments of Systems Medicine and Biopathology
and Image Diagnostics, University of Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. (30)Pathology
Unit, San Camillo-Forlanini Hospital, Rome, Italy. (31)Gastroenterology Section, 
Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, University of Padua, Padua,
Italy. (32)Internal Medicine, S.S. Annunziata Hospital, ASST-Pavia, Varzi, Italy.
(33)Clinical Nutrition Unit, Sant'Eugenio Hospital, Rome, Italy. (34)Unit of
Human Nutrition and Health, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(35)Institute of Pathologic Anatomy, Giaccone University Hospital, University of 
Palermo, Palermo, Italy. (36)Units of IBD, San Filippo Neri Hospital, Rome,
Italy. (37)Units of IBD and Pathologic Anatomy, San Filippo Neri Hospital, Rome, 
Italy. (38)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Cagliari, Cagliari,
Italy. (39)Pathology Unit, SS. Trinità Hospital, Cagliari, Italy. (40)General and
Specialistic Surgery, Città della Salute e della Scienza-Molinette Hospital,
Turin, Italy. (41)Unit of Pathological Anatomy, Sant'Andrea Hospital, Vercelli,
Italy.

Background and Aims.: An increased risk of small bowel carcinoma (SBC) has been
reported in coeliac disease (CD) and Crohn's disease (CrD). We explored
clinico-pathologic, molecular and prognostic features of CD-associated SBC
(CD-SBC) and CrD-associated SBC (CrD-SBC) in comparison with sporadic SBC
(spo-SBC).
Methods.: Seventy-six patients undergoing surgical resection for non-familial SBC
(26 CD-SBC, 25 CrD-SBC, 25 spo-SBC) were retrospectively enrolled to investigate 
patients' survival and histological and molecular features including
microsatellite instability (MSI) and KRAS/NRAS, BRAF, PIK3CA, TP53, HER2 gene
alterations.
Results.: CD-SBC showed a significantly better sex-, age- and stage-adjusted
overall and cancer-specific survival than CrD-SBC, while no significant
difference was found between spo-SBC and either CD-SBC or CrD-SBC. CD-SBC
exhibited a significantly higher rate of MSI and median tumour-infiltrating
lymphocytes (TIL) than CrD-SBC and spo-SBC. Among the whole SBC series, both MSI 
-which was the result of MLH1 promoter methylation in all but one cases- and high
TIL density were associated with improved survival at univariable and
stage-inclusive multivariable analysis. However, only TILs retained prognostic
power when clinical subgroups were added to the multivariable model. KRAS
mutation and HER2 amplification were detected in 30% and 7% of cases
respectively, without prognostic implications.
Conclusions.: In comparison with CrD-SBC, CD-SBC patients harbor MSI and high
TILs more frequently and show better outcome. This seems mainly due to their
higher TIL density, which at multivariable analysis showed an independent
prognostic value. MSI/TIL status, KRAS mutations and HER2 amplification might
help in stratifying patients for targeted anti-cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx031 
PMID: 28333239 


233. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 24. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx017. [Epub ahead of
print]

Aminosalicylates and Elderly-onset Colonic Crohn's Disease-More Than Meets the
Eye?

Limdi JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pennine Acute Hospitals NHS Trust, and Institute of Inflammation and Repair,
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx017 
PMID: 28333225 


234. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 22. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx023. [Epub ahead of
print]

X chromosome-wide association study identifies a susceptibility locus for
inflammatory bowel disease in Koreans.

Lee HS(1), Oh H(2), Baek J(2), Jung S(2), Hong M(2), Kim KM(3), Shin HD(4), Kim
KJ(5), Park SH(5), Ye BD(5), Han B(6), Yang SK(5), Song K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Health Screening and Promotion Center, Asan Medical Center, University of
Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Asan Medical Center Children's Hospital, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (4)Department of Life Science, Sogang
University, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, Asan Medical Center,
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (6)Department of
Convergence Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine & Asan Institute
for Life Sciences, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

Background and Aims: Genome-wide association studies of inflammatory bowel
disease identified >200 susceptibility loci only in autosomes. This study aimed
to identify inflammatory bowel disease susceptibility loci on the X chromosome.
Methods: We performed an X chromosome-wide association study in Korean patients
with inflammatory bowel disease. We analyzed X chromosome data from our recent
genome-wide association studies, including 1,505 cases (922 Crohn's disease and
583 ulcerative colitis) and 4,041 controls during the discovery phase, followed
by replication in additional 1,989 cases (993 Crohn's disease, 996 ulcerative
colitis) and 3,491 controls. Sex-related differential effects of single
nucleotide polymorphisms on disease were also evaluated.
Results: We confirmed a significant association of a previously reported
inflammatory bowel disease susceptibility locus at chromosome Xq26.3
(CD40LG-ARHGEF6; odds ratio, 1.22; 95% confidence interval, 1.16-1.28; combined
P = 3.79 × 10-15). This locus accounted for 0.18% and 0.12% of genetic variance
in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, respectively, and increased the total 
autosomal chromosome genetic variance from 6.65% to 6.83% and from 5.47% to 5.59%
for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis risk, respectively, in the Korean
population. Sex-stratified analyses did not reveal sex-related differences in
effect sizes.
Conclusions: We confirmed the association of rs2427870 at the CD40LG-ARHGEF6
locus with an inflammatory bowel disease through an X chromosome-wide association
study in a Korean population. Our data suggest that the CD40LG-ARHGEF6 locus on
the X chromosome might play a role in inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis in 
the Korean population.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx023 
PMID: 28333213 


235. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 22. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx005. [Epub ahead of
print]

Eldelumab [anti-interferon-γ-inducible protein-10 antibody] Induction Therapy for
Active Crohn's Disease: a Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Phase IIa 
Study.

Sandborn WJ(1), Rutgeerts P(2), Colombel JF(3), Ghosh S(4), Petryka R(5), Sands
BE(3), Mitra P(6), Luo A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, CA, USA. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Catholic University Leuven,
Belgium. (3)Dr Henry D. Janowitz Division of Gastroenterology, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. (4)Division of Gastroenterology,
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (5)NZOZ Vivamed, Zespól Lekarzy
Specjalistów, Warszawa, Poland. (6)Former employee of Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Lawrenceville, NJ, USA.

Background and Aims: This 11-week Phase IIa induction study evaluated the
efficacy and safety of eldelumab in patients with active Crohn's disease.
Methods: Adults with Crohn's Disease Activity Index 220-450 were randomised 1:1:1
to placebo or eldelumab 10 or 20 mg/kg intravenously on Days 1 and 8, and
alternate weeks thereafter. All patients underwent ileocolonoscopy at baseline.
Patients with active inflammation according to the Simplified Endoscopic Score
for Crohn's Disease criteria [the originally planned endoscopy cohort] underwent 
another ileocolonoscopy at Week 11 at the investigator's discretion. All
ileocolonoscopies were centrally read. The primary objective was identification
of the eldelumab target exposure for induction of remission [absolute Crohn's
Disease Activity Index score < 150]. Rates of clinical response [reduction of ≥
100 from baseline or absolute score < 150 Crohn's Disease Activity Index],
remission, and endoscopic improvements were also assessed.
Results: A total of 121 patients were randomised. The eldelumab
exposure-remission relationship was not significant at Week 11. Numerically
higher remission and response rates were reported with eldelumab 20 mg/kg [29.3% 
and 41.5%, respectively] and 10 mg/kg [22.5% and 47.5%] versus placebo [20.0% and
35.0%]. A higher proportion of patients with a baseline Simplified Endoscopic
Score for Crohn's Disease > 2 who received eldelumab achieved a 50% improvement
in score and greater reductions from baseline endoscopy scores overall versus
placebo. Adverse events were comparable across treatment groups.
Conclusions: No exposure-remission relationship was seen with eldelumab.
Eldelumab induction treatment demonstrated trends towards clinical and endoscopic
efficacy. Safety was consistent with that reported previously. ClinicalTrials.gov
identifier: NCT01466374.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx005 
PMID: 28333187 


236. J Crohns Colitis. 2017 Feb 17. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx022. [Epub ahead of
print]

Early Tuberculin Skin Test for the Diagnosis of Latent Tuberculosis Infection in 
Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Taxonera C(1), Ponferrada Á(2), Bermejo F(3), Riestra S(4), Saro C(5),
Martín-Arranz MD(6), Cabriada JL(7), Barreiro-de Acosta M(8), de Castro ML(9),
López-Serrano P(10), Barrio J(11), Suarez C(12), Iglesias E(13), Argüelles-Arias 
F(14), Ferrer I(15), Marín-Jiménez I(16), Hernández-Camba A(17), Bastida G(18),
Van Domselaar M(19), Martínez-Montiel P(20), Olivares D(1), Alba C(1), Gisbert
JP(21); SEGURTB study group from GETECCU.

Author information: 
(1)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Unit, Hospital Clínico San Carlos and Instituto de 
Investigación del Hospital Clínico San Carlos [IdISSC], Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Infanta Leonor, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital de Fuenlabrada, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Central de Asturias, Oviedo, Spain.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital de Cabueñes, Gijón, Spain.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital La Paz, Madrid, Spain. (7)Department 
of Gastroenterology, Hospital de Galdakao, Galdakao, Spain. (8)Department of
Gastroenterology, Hospital Clínico de Santiago, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Vigo,
Vigo, Spain. (10)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario Fundación
Alcorcón, Madrid, Spain. (11)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital
Universitario Río Hortega, Valladolid, Spain. (12)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hospital Puerta de Hierro, Madrid, Spain. (13)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hospital Reina Sofía, Córdoba, Spain. (14)Department of Gastroenterology,
Hospitales Virgen Macarena-Rocío, Sevilla, Spain. (15)Department of
Gastroenterology, Hospital de Manises, Manises, Spain. (16)Department of
Gastroenterology, Hospital Gregorio Marañón and Instituto de Investigación
Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón [IiSGM], Madrid, Spain. (17)Department of
Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario de Canarias, La Laguna, Spain.
(18)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
(19)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital de Torrejón, Madrid, Spain.
(20)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(21)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital de la Princesa, CIBEREHD, Madrid,
Spain.

Background and Aim: Sensitivity of tuberculin skin test [TST] during screening
for latent tuberculosis infection [LTBI] is affected by steroid and/or
immunosuppressant therapy. The aim of this study was to compare performance of
the two-step TST in inflammatory bowel disease patients immediately before
anti-tumour necrosis factor [TNF] therapy as part of routine screening for LTBI
vs control patients when the TST was carried out at an early stage.
Methods: In this multicentre prospective controlled study, we evaluated the
performance of two-step TST with 5-mm threshold. Factors associated with TST
results were determined by logistic regression.
Results: We evaluated 243 candidates for anti-TNF therapy and 337 control
patients. Overall, 105 patients [18.1%] had an induration ≥ 5 mm in the first TST
or in TST retest. LTBI was diagnosed in 25% of patients by TST retest.
Twenty-eight [11.5%] anti-TNF group patients vs 77 [22.8%] control patients had a
positive TST (odds ratio [OR] 0.44, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.28-0.70; P <
0.001]. In multivariate analysis, positive TST was associated with higher age [OR
2.63, 95% CI 1.21-5.72; P < 0.001] and 5-aminosalicylate therapy [OR 1.86, 95% CI
1.14-3.05; P = 0.013]. Negative TST was associated with steroid therapy [OR 0.36,
95% CI 0.16-0.83; P = 0.016], immunosuppressant therapy [OR 0.36, 95% CI
0.21-0.62; P < 0.001], or steroids + immunosuppressant therapy [OR 0.20, 95% CI
0.07-0.59; P = 0.004].
Conclusions: The sensitivity of routine TST performed just before starting
anti-TNF therapy is low. TST performed at an early stage enables screening in the
absence of immunosuppressive treatment and thus maximises the diagnostic yield of
TST for detecting LTBI.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjx022 
PMID: 28333182 


237. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Mar 22. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4547-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Inadequate Gestational Weight Gain Predicts Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes in Mothers
with Inflammatory Bowel Disease: Results from a Prospective US Pregnancy Cohort.

Bengtson MB(1,)(2), Martin CF(3), Aamodt G(4), Vatn MH(5), Mahadevan U(6).

Author information: 
(1)EpiGen-Institute, Faculty Division Akershus and University of Oslo, Lørenskog,
Norway. maybente.bengtson@gmail.com. (2)Medical Department, Vestfold Hospital
Trust, P.O. Box 2168, 3103, Tønsberg, Norway. maybente.bengtson@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. (4)Norwegian University of Life Sciences, P.O.
Box 5003, 1432, Ås, Norway. (5)EpiGen-Institute, Faculty Division Akershus and
University of Oslo, Lørenskog, Norway. (6)Division of Gastroenterology,
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Malnutrition and weight loss are common features of patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
AIM: To explore the impact of inadequate gestational weight gain (GWG) on adverse
outcomes among IBD mothers in the prospective US pregnancy in Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease and Neonatal Outcomes (PIANO) cohort.
METHODS: The PIANO cohort comprises 559 and 363 pregnant mothers with Crohn's
disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), respectively, enrolled between 2006 and
2014. The mothers were followed during and after pregnancy to ascertain
medication, measurement of disease activity and complications during pregnancy
and at delivery. Inadequate GWG was based on US Institute of Medicine
recommendations. The associations between inadequate GWG and adverse pregnancy
outcomes in maternal IBD were analyzed, adjusted for diabetes, hypertension,
smoking, maternal age, education, and disease activity.
RESULTS: Maternal CD and UC with inadequate GWG had a 2.5-fold increased risk of 
preterm birth (OR 2.5, CI 1.3, 4.9 and OR 2.5, CI 1.2, 5.6). Furthermore, an
increased risk of intrauterine growth restriction and a trend for small for
gestational age were demonstrated in CD but not in UC (OR 3.3, CI 1.1, 10.0, OR
4.5, CI 0.8, 24.3, p = 0.08). Flares increased risk of inadequate GWG (OR 1.6, CI
1.2, 2.3, p = 0.002) but did not change the associations between inadequate GWG
and adverse pregnancy outcomes in our models.
CONCLUSION: The US PIANO cohort demonstrated that inadequate GWG was a strong
independent predictor of adverse pregnancy outcomes in IBD mothers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4547-5 
PMID: 28332106 


238. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):833-839. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001074.

Long-term Maintenance of Clinical, Endoscopic, and Radiographic Response to
Ustekinumab in Moderate-to-Severe Crohn's Disease: Real-world Experience from a
Multicenter Cohort Study.

Ma C(1), Fedorak RN, Kaplan GG, Dieleman LA, Devlin SM, Stern N, Kroeker KI, Seow
CH, Leung Y, Novak KL, Halloran BP, Huang VW, Wong K, Blustein PK, Ghosh S,
Panaccione R.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada;†Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada;‡Department of Medicine,
Division of Gastroenterology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada; and§Institute of Translational Medicine, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Ustekinumab is a monoclonal antibody targeting interleukins 12 and
23. While effective in clinical trials for Crohn's disease (CD), long-term
maintenance of response in the real-world setting is unclear. We aim to assess
the efficacy of ustekinumab for maintaining clinical, endoscopic, and
radiographic response in CD.
METHODS: A retrospective multicenter cohort study was performed on patients with 
CD achieving steroid-free clinical response to ustekinumab induction, and
advanced onto a regularly scheduled maintenance ustekinumab regimen between 2011 
and 2016. The primary outcome was loss of response, defined by an increase in
Harvey Bradshaw Index of >3 points from baseline requiring ustekinumab dose
escalation, reinduction, rescue corticosteroids, immunomodulators, surgery, or
ustekinumab discontinuation. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression was
used to identify clinical factors associated with loss of response.
RESULTS: One hundred four patients with CD achieving steroid-free response with
ustekinumab induction were included; 92.3% (96/104) had previously failed
antitumor necrosis factor therapy. Median follow-up was 57.2 weeks (interquartile
range (IQR): 36.7-103.4). Cumulative probability of maintained response at 52
weeks was 71.8%. Sixty-seven patients (64.4%) maintained endoscopic or
radiographic response. Thirty-five patients (33.7%) lost response at a median
time of 47.4 weeks (IQR: 35.3-68.4). Dose escalation was required in 17 patients 
(16.3%); response was recaptured in 9/17 (52.9%). Nine patients (8.7%) required
surgery. In Cox multivariate regression, concurrent immunomodulation was
associated with reduced risk of loss of response (hazards ratio 0.39 (95% CI,
0.17-0.92)).
CONCLUSIONS: Subcutaneous ustekinumab is an effective treatment option for
maintaining long-term clinical, endoscopic, and radiographic response in patients
with moderate-to-severe CD failing antitumor necrosis factor therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001074 
PMID: 28328624 


239. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 21. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001068. [Epub ahead of
print]

Quality of Care and Outcomes Among Hospitalized Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Patients: A Multicenter Retrospective Study.

Nguyen GC(1), Murthy SK, Bressler B, Lam MC, Alali A, Toumi A, Reinglas J,
Rampersad A, Weizman AV, Afif W; CINERGI group.

Author information: 
(1)*Mount Sinai Hospital Centre for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Division of
Gastroenterology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; †Institute for
Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; ‡Department of Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital IBD Centre, University of
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; §Division of Gastroenterology, St. Paul's
Hospital, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada;
and ‖Division of Gastroenterology, McGill University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Half of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) require
hospitalization. We sought to characterize inpatient quality indicators of care
and outcomes during IBD-related hospitalizations at 4 major IBD referral centers 
in Canada.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter retrospective cohort study of patients with
IBD admitted from 2011 to 2013 to tertiary centers in Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, 
and Vancouver. We assessed the following inpatient indicators of care:
pharmacological venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis, Clostridium difficile
testing, and medical rescue therapy for steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis
(UC). We also evaluated rates of VTE, C. difficile infection, and IBD-related
surgery.
RESULTS: There were 837 patients hospitalized for IBD (Crohn's disease, 59%; UC, 
41%). The proportion of patients with IBD who received VTE prophylaxis and C.
difficile testing were 77% and 82%, respectively, although these indicators
varied significantly by center and admitting specialty. Patients admitted under
surgeons were more likely than those admitted under gastroenterologists to
receive VTE prophylaxis (84% versus 74%, P = 0.016) but less likely to be tested 
for C. difficile (41% versus 88%, P < 0.0001). The rate of VTE was the same for
those who did and did not receive VTE prophylaxis (2.2 per 1000 hospital-days).
Among the 14 VTE events, 79% had received prophylaxis, but only 36% within 24
hours of admission. Among steroid-refractory UC patients, 70% received rescue
therapy within 7 days of steroid initiation. The proportion of patients with UC
and CD who required respective bowel surgery was 18% and 20%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There are opportunities to optimize quality of care among
hospitalized patients with IBD.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001068 
PMID: 28328622 


240. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 21. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001079. [Epub ahead of
print]

Ocular Involvement in Children with Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Naviglio S(1), Parentin F, Nider S, Rassu N, Martelossi S, Ventura A.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medicine, Surgery, and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
Trieste, Italy; and †Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS "Burlo
Garofolo," Trieste, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Data on ocular manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in 
children are limited. Some authors have reported a high prevalence of
asymptomatic uveitis, yet the significance of these observations is unknown and
there are no recommendations on which ophthalmologic follow-up should be offered.
METHODS: Children with IBD seen at a single referral center for pediatric
gastroenterology were offered ophthalmologic evaluation as part of routine care
for their disease. Ophthalmologic evaluation included review of ocular history as
well as slit-lamp and fundoscopic examination. Medical records were also reviewed
for previous ophthalmologic diagnoses or complaints.
RESULTS: Data from 94 children were included (52 boys; median age 13.4 yr).
Forty-six patients had a diagnosis of Crohn's disease, 46 ulcerative colitis, and
2 IBD unclassified. Intestinal disease was in clinical remission in 70% of the
patients; fecal calprotectin was elevated in 64%. One patient with Crohn's
disease had a previous diagnosis of clinically manifest uveitis (overall uveitis 
prevalence: 1.06%; incidence rate: 0.3 per 100 patient-years). This patient was
also the only one who was found to have asymptomatic uveitis at slit-lamp
examination. A second patient had posterior subcapsular cataract associated with 
corticosteroid treatment. No signs of intraocular complications from previous
unrecognized uveitis were observed in any patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with IBD may have asymptomatic uveitis, yet its prevalence 
seems lower than previously reported, and it was not found in children without a 
previous diagnosis of clinically manifest uveitis. No ocular complications from
prior unrecognized uveitis were observed.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001079 
PMID: 28328621 


241. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2017 May;17(5):555-564. doi:
10.1080/14712598.2017.1305355. Epub 2017 Mar 22.

Autologous hematopoietic stem cells for refractory Crohn's disease.

DiNicola CA(1,)(2), Zand A(1,)(2), Hommes DW(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Medicine , UCLA Center for Inflammatory Bowel Diseases , Los
Angeles , CA , USA. (2)b Vatche & Tamar Manoukian Divison of Digestive Diseases ,
University of California , Los Angeles , CA , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Autologous hematopoietic stem cells are gaining ground as an
effective and safe treatment for treating severe refractory Crohn's disease (CD).
Autologous hematopoietic stem cell therapy (AHSCT) induces resetting of the
immune system by de novo regeneration of T-cell repertoire and repopulation of
epithelial cells by bone-marrow derived cells to help patients achieve clinical
and endoscopic remission. Areas covered: Herein, the authors discuss the use of
AHSCT in treating patients with CD. Improvements in disease activity have been
seen in patients with severe autoimmune disease and patients with severe CD who
underwent AHSCT for a concomitant malignant hematological disease. Clinical and
endoscopic remission has been achieved in patients treated with AHSCT for CD. The
only randomized trial published to date, the ASTIC Trial, did not support further
use of AHSCT to treat CD. Yet, critics of this trial have deemed AHSCT as a
promising treatment for severe refractory CD. Expert opinion: Even with the
promising evidence presented for HSCT for refractory CD, protocols need to be
refined through the collaboration of GI and hemato-oncology professionals. The
goal is to incorporate safe AHSCT and restore tolerance by delivering an
effective immune 'cease fire' as a treatment option for severe refractory CD.

DOI: 10.1080/14712598.2017.1305355 
PMID: 28326848 


242. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(10):1303-1318. doi: 10.1111/apt.14043. Epub
2017 Mar 21.

Systematic review with network meta-analysis: comparative efficacy and
tolerability of different intravenous iron formulations for the treatment of iron
deficiency anaemia in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Aksan A(1,)(2), Işık H(3), Radeke HH(2,)(4), Dignass A(2,)(5), Stein J(2,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Interdisciplinary Crohn Colitis Centre Rhein-Main, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.
(3)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Sciences, Ankara, Turkey. (4)Pharmazentrum
frankfurt, Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Hospital of the Goethe
University, Frankfurt/Main, Germany. (5)Agaplesion Markus Krankenhaus, Department
of Gastroenterology, Frankfurt/Main, Germany. (6)DGD Clinics Sachsenhausen,
Department of Gastroenterology and Clinical Nutrition, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) is a common complication of
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) associated with reduced quality of life and
increased hospitalisation rates. While the best way of treating IDA in IBD
patients is not clearly established, current European guidelines recommend
intravenous iron therapy in IBD patients with severe anaemia or intolerance to
oral iron compounds.
AIM: To compare the efficacy and tolerability of different intravenous iron
formulations used to treat IDA in IBD patients in a systematic review and
Bayesian network meta-analysis (NMA), PROSPERO registration number: 42016046565.
METHODS: In June 2016, we systematically searched for studies analysing efficacy 
and safety of intravenous iron for IDA therapy in IBD. Primary outcome was
therapy response, defined as Hb normalisation or increase ≥2 g/dL.
RESULTS: Five randomised, controlled trials (n = 1143 patients) were included in 
a network meta-analysis. Only ferric carboxymaltose was significantly more
effective than oral iron [OR=1.9, 95% CrI: (1.1;3.2)]. Rank probabilities showed 
ferric carboxymaltose to be most effective, followed by iron sucrose, iron
isomaltose and oral iron. Pooled data from the systematic review (n = 1746
patients) revealed adverse event rates of 12.0%, 15.3%, 12.0%, 17.0% for ferric
carboxymaltose, iron sucrose, iron dextran and iron isomaltose respectively. One 
drug-related serious adverse event (SAE) each was reported for ferric
carboxymaltose and iron isomaltoside, and one possibly drug-related SAE for iron 
sucrose.
CONCLUSIONS: Ferric carboxymaltose was the most effective intravenous iron
formulation, followed by iron sucrose. In addition, ferric carboxymaltose tended 
to be better tolerated. Thus, nanocolloidal IV iron products exhibit differing
therapeutic and safety characteristics and are not interchangeable.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14043 
PMID: 28326596 


243. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(10):1291-1302. doi: 10.1111/apt.14030. Epub
2017 Mar 22.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: comparative efficacy of biologics for
induction and maintenance of mucosal healing in Crohn's disease and ulcerative
colitis controlled trials.

Cholapranee A(1), Hazlewood GS(2,)(3), Kaplan GG(2), Peyrin-Biroulet L(4),
Ananthakrishnan AN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada. (3)McCaig Institute for Bone and Joint Health, University of
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (4)Inserm U954 and Department of Gastroenterology, 
Nancy University Hospital, Université de Lorraine, Vandoeuvre, France.
(5)Gastroenterology Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mucosal healing is an important therapeutic endpoint in the
management of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). Limited data
exist regarding the comparative efficacy of various therapies in achieving this
outcome.
AIM: To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of biologics for induction 
and maintenance of mucosal healing in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised
controlled trials (RCT) examining mucosal healing as an endpoint of
immunosuppressives, anti-tumour necrosis factor α (anti-TNF) or anti-integrin
monoclonal antibody therapy for moderate-to-severe CD or UC. Pooled effect sizes 
for induction and maintenance of mucosal healing were calculated and pairwise
treatment comparisons evaluated using a Bayesian network meta-analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 12 RCTs were included in the meta-analysis (CD - 2 induction,
4 maintenance; UC - 8 induction, 5 maintenance). Duration of follow-up was
6-12 weeks for induction and 32-54 weeks for maintenance trials. In CD, anti-TNFs
were more effective than placebo for maintaining mucosal healing [28% vs. 1%,
Odds ratio (OR) 19.71, 95% confidence interval (CI) 3.51-110.84]. In UC,
anti-TNFs and anti-integrins were more effective than placebo for inducing (45%
vs. 30%) and maintaining mucosal healing (33% vs. 18%). In network analysis,
adalimumab therapy was inferior to infliximab [OR 0.45, 95% credible interval
(CrI) 0.25-0.82] and combination infliximab-azathioprine (OR 0.32, 95% CrI
0.12-0.84) for inducing mucosal healing in UC. There was no statistically
significant pairwise difference between vedolizumab and anti-TNF agents in UC.
CONCLUSIONS: Anti-TNF and anti-integrin biological agents are effective in
inducing mucosal healing in UC, with adalimumab being inferior to infliximab or
combination therapy. Infliximab and adalimumab were similar in CD.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14030 
PMCID: PMC5395316 [Available on 2018-05-01]
PMID: 28326566 


244. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2017 Apr;38(3):240-242. doi: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000434.

Supporting a Youth with Cerebellar Ataxia into Adolescence.

Meneses V(1), Gonzalez-Castillo Z, Edgar VB, Augustyn M.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics, Department of Pediatric
Developmental Disabilities, Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children, University
of Texas Southwestern Medical Center; †Department of Neurology, Texas Scottish
Rite Hospital for Children; ‡Division of Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center; §Department of Pediatrics,
Boston Medical Center/Boston University School of Medicine.

CASE: Zoe, a 13-year-old white girl, presents as a new patient to your pediatric 
clinic with complaints of frequent emesis, anxiety, and learning problems, and
previous diagnosis of cerebellar ataxia. Parents accompany Zoe and state, "it is 
really hard for her to go out, she gets sick and falls easily." She was born full
term by vaginal delivery without complications. Given globally delayed
milestones, she received early intervention services. Feeding problems began at
infancy, including gastroesophageal reflux and aspiration pneumonia.At age 2, Zoe
saw a neurologist and brain MRI revealed cerebellar atrophy. She recently saw a
geneticist and genetic studies are pending. Parents report receiving "little"
information regarding prognosis; through their own research, they read about
individuals having similar symptoms in adulthood, with a degenerative pattern.
They worry that Zoe is "still very young and we do not know what her future will 
be like."Despite ongoing speech and feeding challenges, the parents report
difficulty finding a speech and language therapist in their area. Zoe does see an
otolaryngologist for frequent otitis media and hearing loss and an
ophthalmologist for vision problems. Still, she continues to fall further behind 
in school. Furthermore, she is intensely afraid of falling at school and has few 
friends, resulting in the family being at a loss regarding "what to do about
school."She lives with both parents and 2 healthy older sisters. Her mother has
Crohn's disease and has been unable to work. Her maternal aunt is close to Zoe
and has hypothyroidism. Her father works as an insurance agent and resources have
been "tight." Zoe's mother describes "making" Zoe go out to the movies,
"otherwise she just stays home." Zoe usually needs assistance to walk in public, 
to keep from stumbling. Parents share that simply being in a public place or
meeting a new physician may trigger emesis. Zoe does enjoy interacting with
neighborhood children and says she wants to be "normal," wear nail polish, and
date. She seeks independence, often refusing to use her wheelchair. Parents feel 
she requires more intensive occupational and physical therapy.On examination, she
is very slender with hypertelorism and nystagmus. Holding an emesis bag, she gags
intermittently, producing clear secretions. She has a notable tremor and walks
slightly stooped with wide-based gait. Her few words demonstrate articulation
differences and cognitive expression characteristic of a younger child. She wears
light make-up and age-appropriate clothes. She asks, "When can I go home?"At the 
end of the visit, parents share their worry that Zoe is "so young and we do not
know anything, what to expect, or what to tell her." As the family's new medical 
home, they ask you to weigh in on what to do next to best support her? Where do
you begin?

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000434 
PMID: 28323747 


245. Internist (Berl). 2017 Apr;58(4):426. doi: 10.1007/s00108-017-0227-y.

[Erratum to: Ustekinumab for the treatment of Crohn's disease. UNITI-IM-UNITI].

[Article in German]

Siegmund B(1), Nitschmann S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medizinische Klinik für Gastroenterologie, Infektiologie, Rheumatologie,
Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin,
Hindenburgdamm 30, 12200, Berlin, Deutschland. britta.siegmund@charite.de. (2),
Lippetal, Deutschland.

Erratum for
    Internist (Berl). 2017 Apr;58(4):424-426.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-017-0227-y 
PMID: 28321458 


246. J Immunol Res. 2017;2017:6038137. doi: 10.1155/2017/6038137. Epub 2017 Feb 21.

ANA IIF Automation: Moving towards Harmonization? Results of a Multicenter Study.

Van den Bremt S(1), Schouwers S(2), Van Blerk M(3), Van Hoovels L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, OLV Hospital, Aalst, Belgium. (2)Department
of Laboratory Medicine, GZA Hospitals, Antwerp, Belgium. (3)Scientific Institute 
of Public Health (WIV-ISP), Brussels, Belgium.

Background. Our study aimed to investigate whether the introduction of automated 
anti-nuclear antibody (ANA) indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) analysis decreases 
the interlaboratory variability of ANA titer results. Method. Three serum samples
were sent to 10 laboratories using the QUANTA-Lyser® in combination with the NOVA
View®. Each laboratory performed the ANA IIF analysis 10x in 1 run and 1x in 10
different runs and determined the endpoint titer by dilution. One of the three
samples had been sent in 2012, before the era of ANA IIF automation, by the
Belgian National External Quality Assessment (EQA) Scheme. Harmonization was
evaluated in terms of variability in fluorescence intensity (LIU) and ANA IIF
titer. Results. The evaluation of the intra- and interrun LIU variability
revealed a larger variability for 2 laboratories, due to preanalytical and
analytical problems. Reanalysis of the EQA sample resulted in a lower titer
variability. Diluted endpoint titers were similar to the estimated single well
titer and the overall median titer as reported by the EQA in 2012. Conclusion.
The introduction of automated microscopic analysis allows more harmonized ANA IIF
reporting, provided that this totally automated process is controlled by a
thorough quality assurance program, covering the total ANA IIF process.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/6038137 
PMCID: PMC5339452
PMID: 28321418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


247. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 7;23(9):1676-1696. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i9.1676.

Inflammatory bowel disease: An evaluation of health information on the internet.

Azer SA(1), AlOlayan TI(1), AlGhamdi MA(1), AlSanea MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Samy A Azer, Thekra I AlOlayan, Malak A AlGhamdi, Malak A AlSanea, Curriculum 
Development and Research Unit, Medical Education Department, College of Medicine,
King Saud University, Riyadh 11461, Saudi Arabia.

AIM: To evaluate the quality and accuracy of websites written to the public on
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis) and
assess their readability level.
METHODS: Google™, Bing™, and Yahoo™ search engines were searched independently by
three researchers in December 2014. Only English-language websites were selected 
on the basis of predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Researchers
independently evaluated the quality of each website by using the DISCERN and the 
HONcode instruments. The readability levels were calculated using two formulas;
the Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level Index, and the Coleman-Liau Readability Index. The
agreement between the evaluators was calculated using Cohen kappa coefficient.
RESULTS: Eighty-four websites were finally identified. Scores varied from a
minimum DISCERN score of 18 to a maximum of 68 [mean ± SD, 42.2 ± 10.7; median = 
41.5, interquartile range, interquartile range (IQR) = 15.8] and a minimum score 
of HONcode of 0.14 and a maximum of 0.95 (mean ± SD, 0.16 ± 0.19; median = 0.45, 
IQR = 0.29). Most of these websites were reviewed in 2014 and 2015 (n = 51). The 
creators of these websites were: universities and research centers (n = 25, 30%),
foundations and associations (n = 15, 18%), commercial and pharmaceutical
companies (n = 25, 30%), charities and volunteer work (n = 9, 10%), and
non-university educational bodies (n = 10, 12%). The Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level
readability score (mean ± SD) was 11.9 ± 2.4 and the Coleman-Liau Readability
Index score was 12.6 ± 1.5. Significant correlation was found between the two
readability scores (R(2) = 0.509, P = 0.001). The overall agreement between
evaluators measured by Cohen kappa coefficient was in the range of 0.804-0.876;
rated as "Good".
CONCLUSION: The DISCERN and the HONcode scores of websites varied and the
readability levels of most websites were above the public readability level. The 
study highlights the areas that need further improvement and development in
patient education online materials about IBD.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i9.1676 
PMCID: PMC5340820
PMID: 28321169 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


248. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 7;23(9):1541-1551. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i9.1541.

Pseudopolyps in inflammatory bowel diseases: Have we learned enough?

Politis DS(1), Katsanos KH(1), Tsianos EV(1), Christodoulou DK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dimitrios S Politis, Konstantinos H Katsanos, Epameinondas V Tsianos,
Dimitrios K Christodoulou, Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital of
Ioannina, Faculty of Medicine, School of Health Sciences, University of Ioannina,
45110 Ioannina, Greece.

Pseudopolyps are a well described entity in the literature and even though the
exact pathogenesis of their formation is not completely understood, they are
considered non-neoplastic lesions originating from the mucosa after repeated
periods of inflammation and ulceration associated with excessive healing
processes. Their occurrence is less common in Crohn's disease than in ulcerative 
colitis, and their overall prevalence ranges from 4% to 74%; moreover, they are
found more often in colon but have been detected in other parts of the
gastrointestinal tract as well. When their size exceeds the arbitrary point of
1.5 cm, they are classified as giant pseudopolyps. Clinical evaluation should
differentiate the pseudopolyps from other polypoid lesions, such as the
dysplasia-associated mass or lesion, but this situation represents an ongoing
clinical challenge. Pseudopolyps can provoke complications such as bleeding or
obstruction, and their management includes medical therapy, endoscopy and
surgery; however, no consensus exists about the optimal treatment approach.
Patients with pseudopolyps are considered at intermediate risk for colorectal
cancer and regular endoscopic monitoring is recommended. Through a review of the 
literature, we provide here a proposed classification of the characteristics of
pseudopolyps.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i9.1541 
PMCID: PMC5340806
PMID: 28321155 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All authors
declare no potential conflicts of interest.


249. Br J Pharmacol. 2017 Mar 20. doi: 10.1111/bph.13787. [Epub ahead of print]

Constitutive androstane receptor regulates the intestinal mucosal response to
injury.

Hudson GM(1,)(2), Flannigan KL(1,)(2), Erickson SL(1,)(2), Vicentini FA(1,)(2),
Zamponi A(1,)(2), Hirota CL(3), Alston L(1,)(2), Altier C(1), Ghosh S(4), Rioux
KP(3), Mani S(5), Chang TK(6), Hirota SA(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Pharmacology, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Canada. (2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology & Infectious Diseases,
University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada. (3)Department of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Canada. (4)Institute of Immunology and Immunotherapy,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (5)Department of Medicine & Genetics,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. (6)Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The pathogenesis of the inflammatory bowel diseases
(IBD), comprising Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), involves
aberrant interactions between a genetically susceptible individual, their
microbiota and environmental factors. Alterations in xenobiotic receptor
expression and function are associated with increased risk for IBD. Here, we have
assessed the role of the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), a xenobiotic
receptor closely related to the pregnane X receptor, in the regulation of
intestinal mucosal homeostasis.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: CAR expression was assessed in intestinal mucosal biopsies
obtained from CD and UC patients, and in C57/Bl6 mice exposed to dextran sulphate
sodium (DSS; 3.5% w/v in drinking water) to evoke intestinal inflammation and
tissue damage. CAR-deficient mice were exposed to DSS and mucosal healing
assessed. Modulation of wound healing by CAR was assessed in vitro. The
therapeutic potential of CAR activation was evaluated, using
3,3',5,5'-tetrachloro-1,4-bis(pyridyloxy)benzene (TCPOBOP), a selective rodent
CAR agonist.
KEY RESULTS: CAR expression was reduced in CD and UC samples, compared with
expression in healthy controls. This was reproduced in our DSS studies, where CAR
expression was reduced in colitic mice. CAR-deficient mice exhibited reduced
healing following DSS exposure. In vitro, CAR activation accelerated intestinal
epithelial wound healing by enhancing cell migration. Lastly, treating mice with 
TCPOBOP, following induction of colitis, enhanced mucosal healing.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our results support the notion that xenobiotic
sensing is altered during intestinal inflammation, and suggest that CAR
activation may prove effective in enhancing mucosal healing in patients with IBD.

© 2017 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.13787 
PMID: 28320072 


250. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 28:1-8. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1309285. [Epub ahead of print]

New horizons in the imaging of perianal Crohn's disease: transperineal
ultrasonography.

Bezzio C(1), Bryant RV(2), Manes G(1), Maconi G(3), Saibeni S(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Gastroenterology Unit , Rho Hospital, ASST Rhodense , Garbagnate Milanese , 
Italy. (2)b Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology , Royal Adelaide
Hospital , Adelaide , Australia. (3)c Gastroenterology Unit , Sacco Hospital,
ASST Fatebenefratelli-Sacco , Milano , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: perianal disease, most commonly manifest as fistula or abscess
formation, affects up to 40% of patients with crohn's disease. perianal crohn's
disease is disabling, associated with poor outcomes, and represents a therapeutic
challenge for physicians. correct diagnosis and classification of perianal
disease is the first crucial step for appropriate multidisciplinary management.
Areas covered: A literature search was performed of the PubMed database using the
terms 'transperineal ultrasonography', 'transperineal ultrasound', 'perianal
disease', 'perianal fistula', 'perianal abscess', 'magnetic resonance', 'endoanal
ultrasonography', 'endoscopic ultrasound' in combination with 'Crohn's disease'. 
A comprehensive review of the relative advantages and disadvantages of the
various methods of evaluation of perianal Crohn's disease is provided. A
particular focus is placed on transperineal ultrasonography, including historical
and technical factors, advantages and limitations, and its current role in
practice. An algorithm for integration of transperineal ultrasound into the
management of perianal Crohn's disease into clinical practice is proposed, along 
with future areas research. Expert commentary: Transperineal ultrasound is a
simple, safe, cheap and reliable imaging technique for evaluation of perianal
Crohn's disease, which should be used more frequently in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1309285 
PMID: 28319427 


251. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2017 Apr - Jun;82(2):134-155. doi:
10.1016/j.rgmx.2016.07.005. Epub 2017 Mar 16.

Special situations in inflammatory bowel disease: First Latin American consensus 
of the Pan American Crohn's and Colitis Organisation (PANCCO) (Second part).

[Article in English, Spanish]

Yamamoto-Furusho JK(1), Bosques-Padilla F(2), Daffra P(3), De Paula JA(3),
Etchevers J(3), Galiano MT(4), Ibañez P(5), Juliao F(6), Kotze PG(7), Marroquín
de la Garza JM(2), Monreal Robles R(2), Rocha JL(8), Steinwurz F(9),
Vázquez-Frías R(10), Veitia G(11), Zaltman C(12).

Author information: 
(1)Clínica de Enfermedad Inflamatoria Intestinal, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias 
Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Ciudad de México, México. Electronic
address: kazuofurusho@hotmail.com. (2)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Hospital
Universitario Dr. José Eleuterio González, Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León,
Monterrey, México; Escuela de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, Tecnológico de
Monterrey, Monterrey, México. (3)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Hospital
Italiano, Buenos Aires, Argentina. (4)Clínica de Enfermedad Inflamatoria
Intestinal, Clínica Marly, Bogotá, Colombia. (5)Programa de Enfermedad
Inflamatoria Intestinal, Departamento de Gastroenterología, Clínica Las Condes,
Santiago, Chile. (6)Clínica de Enfermedad Inflamatoria Intestinal, Hospital Pablo
Tobón Uribe, Medellín, Colombia. (7)Hospital Universitario Cajuru, Universidad
Católica del Paraná (PUCPR), Curitiba, Brasil. (8)Grupo Académico y de
Investigación en Crohn y Colitis Ulcerosa Crónica Idiopática de México, Ciudad de
México, México. (9)Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, São Paulo, Brasil.
(10)Departamento de Gastroenterología Pediátrica, Hospital Infantil de México
Federico Gómez, Ciudad de México, México. (11)Servicio de Gastroenterología,
Hospital Vargas, Caracas, Venezuela. (12)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Hospital 
Clementino Fraga Filho, Departamento de Medicina Interna, Universidad Federal do 
Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Río de Janeiro, Brasil.

This is the first Latin American Consensus of the Pan American Crohn's and
Colitis Organisation (PANCCO) regarding special situations in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The aim of this consensus is to raise awareness
in the medical community in all Latin American countries with respect to
pregnancy, vaccinations, infections, neoplasms, including colorectal cancer, and 
pediatric issues in patients with IBD.

Copyright © 2017 Asociación Mexicana de Gastroenterología. Publicado por Masson
Doyma México S.A. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rgmx.2016.07.005 
PMID: 28318706 


252. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(10):1329-1338. doi: 10.1111/apt.14040. Epub
2017 Mar 20.

The effects of pregnancy on the pharmacokinetics of infliximab and adalimumab in 
inflammatory bowel disease.

Seow CH(1,)(2), Leung Y(1), Vande Casteele N(3), Ehteshami Afshar E(1), Tanyingoh
D(1), Bindra G(1), Stewart MJ(1), Beck PL(1), Kaplan GG(1,)(2), Ghosh S(1),
Panaccione R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Canada. (2)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of
Calgary, Calgary, Canada. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of
Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transplacental transfer of infliximab and adalimumab results in
detectable drug levels in the cord blood and infant.
AIM: To determine if pregnancy influenced the pharmacokinetics of anti-TNF agents
in women with inflammatory bowel disease.
METHODS: Twenty-five women from the University of Calgary inflammatory bowel
disease(IBD) pregnancy clinic on maintenance infliximab or adalimumab were
recruited prospectively with serum bio-banking performed each trimester.
Infliximab trough and adalimumab steady-state levels were the outcomes of
interest and were analysed using the ANSER infliximab and adalimumab assays.
Multivariate linear mixed-effects models were constructed to assess infliximab
and adalimumab drug levels during pregnancy adjusting for the clinical covariates
of albumin, BMI and CRP.
RESULTS: Fifteen women (eight Crohn's disease, seven ulcerative colitis) received
infliximab and 10 women with 11 pregnancies were treated with adalimumab. Median 
age was 29.6 years (IQR: 27.6-31.2 years). Median disease duration was 9.2 years 
(IQR: 3.16-15.0 years). Median trough infliximab concentrations were 8.50 μg/mL
(IQR: 7.23-10.07 μg/mL), 10.31 μg/mL (IQR: 7.66-15.63 μg/mL) and 21.02 μg/mL
(IQR: 16.01-26.70 μg/mL) at trimesters 1, 2 and 3 respectively. Significant
changes in albumin and BMI (P < 0.05) but not CRP (P > 0.05) were documented
throughout pregnancy. After adjusting for albumin, BMI and CRP, infliximab trough
levels increased during pregnancy, by 4.2 μg/mL per trimester (P = 0.02), while
adalimumab drug levels remained stable (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Infliximab levels rise during pregnancy, whereas adalimumab levels
remain stable after accounting for changes in albumin, BMI and CRP. Therapeutic
drug monitoring in the second trimester may be useful in guiding dosing in the
third trimester.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14040 
PMID: 28318043 


253. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 28:1-3. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1309289. [Epub ahead of print]

Better together: improved care of the IBD patient using the multi-disciplinary
IBD center.

Koltun WA(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Penn State Hershey IBD Center, Penn
State Hershey Medical Center , Penn State College of Medicine , Hershey , PA ,
USA.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1309289 
PMID: 28317406 


254. Biomed Res Int. 2017;2017:6960810. doi: 10.1155/2017/6960810. Epub 2017 Feb 21.

Prolonged P-Wave and QT Dispersion in Children with Inflammatory Bowel Disease in
Remission.

Bornaun HA(1), Yılmaz N(2), Kutluk G(3), Dedeoğlu R(4), Öztarhan K(1),
Keskindemirci G(5), Tulunoğlu A(5), Şap F(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Kanuni Sultan Süleyman Education and
Research Hospital, İstanbul, Turkey. (2)Department of Pediatric Cardiology,
Medical Faculty, Mustafa Kemal University, Hatay, Turkey. (3)Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Kanuni Sultan Süleyman Education and Research
Hospital, İstanbul, Turkey. (4)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Cerrahpaşa
Medical Faculty, İstanbul University, İstanbul, Turkey. (5)Department of
Pediatrics, Kanuni Sultan Süleyman Education and Research Hospital, İstanbul,
Turkey. (6)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Medical Faculty, Necmettin Erbakan
University, Konya, Turkey.

Objectives. Ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) are chronic
inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) with unclear underlying aetiologies. Severe
cardiac arrhythmias have been emphasised in a few studies on adult IBD patients. 
This study aimed to investigate the alteration of the P-wave and QT interval
dispersion parameters to assess the risk of atrial conduction and ventricular
repolarisation abnormalities in pediatric IBD patients. Patients and Methods.
Thirty-six IBD patients in remission (UC: 20, CD: 16) aged 3-18 years and 36 age-
and sex-matched control patients were enrolled in the study. Twelve-lead
electrocardiograms were used to determine durations of P-wave, QT, and corrected 
QT (QTc) interval dispersion. Transthoracic echocardiograms and 24-hour rhythm
Holter recordings were obtained for both groups. Results. The P-wave dispersion, 
QT dispersion, and QTc interval dispersion (Pdisp, QTdisp, and QTcdisp) were
significantly longer in the patient group. The mean values of Pminimum, Pmaximum,
and QTcminimum were significantly different between the two groups. The
echocardiography and Holter monitoring results were not significantly different
between the groups. Furthermore, no differences in these parameters were detected
between the CD and UC groups. Conclusion. Results suggest that paediatric IBD
patients may carry potential risks for serious atrial and ventricular arrhythmias
over time even during remission.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/6960810 
PMCID: PMC5339525
PMID: 28316985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


255. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Mar 17. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4539-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Incidence of and Risk Factors for Free Bowel Perforation in Patients with Crohn's
Disease.

Kim JW(1), Lee HS(2,)(3), Ye BD(4,)(5), Yang SK(2,)(6), Hwang SW(2), Park
SH(2,)(6), Yang DH(2), Kim KJ(2,)(6), Byeon JS(2), Myung SJ(2), Yoon YS(6,)(7),
Yu CS(6,)(7), Kim JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University Ilsan Paik Hospital, Goyang, 
Korea. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Ulsan College of
Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Health Screening
and Promotion Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical
Center, Seoul, Korea. (4)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. bdye@amc.seoul.kr.
(5)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine,
Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. bdye@amc.seoul.kr. (6)Inflammatory Bowel
Disease Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center,
Seoul, Korea. (7)Department of Colon and Rectal Surgery, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Incidence of and risk factors for intestinal free perforation (FP) in
patients with Crohn's disease (CD) are not established.
AIM: To establish rate of and risk factors for FP in a large cohort of CD
patients.
METHODS: Medical records of CD patients who visited Asan Medical Center from June
1989 to December 2012 were reviewed. After matching the FP patients to controls
(1:4) by gender, year, and age at CD diagnosis, and disease location, their
clinical characteristics were compared using conditional logistic regression
analysis.
RESULTS: Among 2043 patients who were included in our study cohort, 44 patients
(2.15%) developed FP over a median follow-up period of 79.8 months (interquartile
range 37.3-124.6), with an incidence of 3.18 per 1000 person-years [95%
confidence interval (CI) 2.37-4.28]. All 44 patients underwent emergency surgery,
and eight patients underwent reoperation within 12 months (8/44, 18.2%).
Multivariable-adjusted analysis revealed that anti-TNF therapy [odds ratio (OR), 
3.73; 95% CI 1.19-11.69; p = 0.024] was associated with an increased risk of FP.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of FP in a large cohort of Korean CD patients was
2.15%, which was similar to that in Western reports. Anti-TNF therapy could be
risk factors for FP.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4539-5 
PMID: 28315037 


256. Cell Death Differ. 2017 Mar 17. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2017.27. [Epub ahead of print]

The ErbB3 receptor tyrosine kinase negatively regulates Paneth cells by
PI3K-dependent suppression of Atoh1.

Almohazey D(1,)(2,)(3), Lo YH(4), Vossler CV(1), Simmons AJ(5), Hsieh JJ(1),
Bucar EB(1), Schumacher MA(1), Hamilton KE(6), Lau KS(5), Shroyer NF(4), Frey
MR(1,)(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)The Saban Research Institute, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
CA, USA. (2)University of Southern California Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA. (3)Institute for Research and Medical Consultations,
University of Dammam, Dammam, Saudi Arabia. (4)Section of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(5)Epithelial Biology Center, Department of Cell and Developmental Biology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA. (6)Division of
Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (7)Department of Pediatrics,
University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Southern
California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Paneth cells (PCs), a secretory population located at the base of the intestinal 
crypt, support the intestinal stem cells (ISC) with growth factors and
participate in innate immunity by releasing antimicrobial peptides, including
lysozyme and defensins. PC dysfunction is associated with disorders such as
Crohn's disease and necrotizing enterocolitis, but the specific pathways
regulating PC development and function are not fully understood. Here we tested
the role of the neuregulin receptor ErbB3 in control of PC differentiation and
the ISC niche. Intestinal epithelial ErbB3 knockout caused precocious appearance 
of PCs as early as postnatal day 7, and substantially increased the number of
mature PCs in adult mouse ileum. ErbB3 loss had no effect on other secretory
lineages, but increased expression of the ISC marker Lgr5. ErbB3-null intestines 
had elevated levels of the Atoh1 transcription factor, which is required for
secretory fate determination, while Atoh1(+) cells had reduced ErbB3, suggesting 
reciprocal negative regulation. ErbB3-null intestinal progenitor cells showed
reduced activation of the PI3K-Akt and ERK MAPK pathways. Inhibiting these
pathways in HT29 cells increased levels of ATOH1 and the PC marker LYZ.
Conversely, ErbB3 activation suppressed LYZ and ATOH1 in a PI3K-dependent manner.
Expansion of the PC compartment in ErbB3-null intestines was accompanied with
elevated ER stress and inflammation markers, raising the possibility that
negative regulation of PCs by ErbB3 is necessary to maintain homeostasis. Taken
together, our data suggest that ErbB3 restricts PC numbers through PI3K-mediated 
suppression of Atoh1 levels leading to inhibition of PC differentiation, with
important implications for regulation of the ISC niche.Cell Death and
Differentiation advance online publication, 17 March 2017;
doi:10.1038/cdd.2017.27.

DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2017.27 
PMID: 28304405 


257. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Mar 17. doi: 10.1111/codi.13658. [Epub ahead of print]

Subtotal colectomy for ulcerative colitis: lessons learned from a tertiary
centre.

Buchs NC(1), Bloemendaal AL(1), Wood CP(1), Travis S(2), Mortensen NJ(1), Guy
RJ(1), George BD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Churchill Hospital, Oxford University
Hospitals, Oxford, UK. (2)Translational Gastroenterology Unit, Nuffield
Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

AIM: Subtotal colectomy (STC) is a well-established treatment for complicated and
refractory ulcerative colitis (UC). A laparoscopic approach offers potentially
improved outcomes. The aim of the study was to report our experience with STC for
UC in a single large center.
METHOD: From January 2007 to May 2015, all consecutive patients undergoing STC
for UC were retrospectively analysed from a prospectively-managed database.
Patients with known Crohn's disease or those undergoing one-stage procedures were
excluded. Demographics, perioperative outcomes and second-stage procedures were
analysed.
RESULTS: During the study period, 151 STC were performed for UC (100 emergency
(66%) and 51 elective (34%)). Acute severe colitis refractory to therapy was the 
most common indication (62%). Overall, 117 laparoscopic (78%) and 34 open STC
were performed, with a conversion rate of 14.5%. Mortality and morbidity rates
were 0.7% and 38%, respectively. Whilst operative time was shorter for open STC
(by 75 minutes; P = 0.001), there were fewer complications (32% vs 62%; P =
0.002) and a shorter hospital stay (by 6.9 days; P = 0.0002) following
laparoscopic STC. Fewer complications and shorter hospital stay were also
observed after elective STC. Patients undergoing laparoscopic STC were more
likely to undergo a restorative second-stage procedure than those having open STC
(75% vs 50%; P = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic STC for UC is feasible and safe, even in the emergency
situation. A laparoscopic approach may offer advantages in terms of lower
morbidity and reduced length of stay. Elective resection may offer similar
advantages and is best performed whenever possible. This article is protected by 
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13658 
PMID: 28304125 


258. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):798-803. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001060.

Patient-Reported Outcomes of Quality of Life, Functioning, and GI/Psychiatric
Symptom Severity in Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD).

IsHak WW(1), Pan D, Steiner AJ, Feldman E, Mann A, Mirocha J, Danovitch I, Melmed
GY.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles, California;†Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral
Sciences, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, California;‡Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los
Angeles, California;§Department of Psychology, California School of Professional 
Psychology, Alliant International University, Los Angeles, California;
and‖Biostatistics Core, Research Institute and Clinical and Translational Science
Institute (CTSI), Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California.

BACKGROUND: Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at risk for
psychiatric disorders that impact symptom experience and health-related quality
of life (HRQOL). Therefore, comprehensive biopsychosocial assessments should be
considered in ambulatory care settings. Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
Information System (PROMIS) measures created by the National Institutes of Health
have shown construct validity in a large IBD internet-based cohort, but their
validity in ambulatory settings has not been examined. We sought to validate
PROMIS patient-reported measures of HRQOL, functioning, and psychiatric symptom
severity at a tertiary IBD clinic.
METHODS: Adult patients (n = 110) completed the PROMIS Global Health scale,
PROMIS-29, SF-12, and WHODAS 2.0. Pearson's correlation coefficients (r)
determined the relationships between scores to validate the PROMIS Global Health 
Physical and Mental metrics, compared with the SF-12 and WHODAS 2.0. We compared 
these measures by disease subtype of Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.
RESULTS: PROMIS measures were highly correlated (r range = 0.64-0.82) with
standard measures of HRQOL and functioning. On the PROMIS Global Health measures,
20.9% had impaired physical health, and 13.7% had impaired mental health.
Impairments were reported in pain interference (20% of patients), anxiety
(18.2%), satisfaction with social role (15.5%), physical functioning (10.9%),
fatigue (10%), depression (7.3%), and sleep disturbance (5.5%). Patients with
Crohn's disease had worse scores than those with ulcerative colitis on measures
of the global physical health (P = 0.027), physical functioning (P = 0.047), and 
pain interference (P = 0.0009).
CONCLUSIONS: PROMIS instruments provide valid assessment of HRQOL and functioning
in ambulatory adults with IBD. Of note, patients with Crohn's disease
demonstrated significantly worse impairments than those with ulcerative colitis.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001060 
PMID: 28301432 


259. PLoS One. 2017 Mar 16;12(3):e0174121. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174121.
eCollection 2017.

A novel model of colitis-associated cancer in SAMP1/YitFc mice with Crohn's
disease-like ileitis.

Menghini P(1,)(2), Di Martino L(1,)(2), Lopetuso LR(2,)(3), Corridoni D(1,)(2),
Webster JC(1,)(2), Xin W(2,)(3), Arseneau KO(1,)(2), Lam M(1,)(2), Pizarro
TT(1,)(2,)(3), Cominelli F(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio,
United States of America. (2)Digestive Health Research Institute, Case Western
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America. (3)Department of
Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of
America.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at increased risk for
developing colorectal cancer. Evidence suggests that colonic dysplasia and
colitis-associated cancer (CAC) are often linked to repeated cycles of epithelial
cell injury and repair in the context of chronic production of inflammatory
cytokines. Several mouse models of CAC have been proposed, including chemical
induction through exposure to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) with the genotoxic
agents azoxymethane (AOM), 1,2-dymethylhydrazine (DHM) or targeted genetic
mutations. However, such models are usually performed on healthy animals that
usually lack the underlying genetic predisposition, immunological dysfunction and
dysbiosis characteristic of IBD. We have previously shown that inbred SAMP1/YitFc
(SAMP) mice develop a progressive Crohn's disease (CD)-like ileitis in the
absence of spontaneous colitis. We hypothesize that SAMP mice may be more
susceptible to colonic tumorigenesis due to their predisposition to IBD. To test 
this hypothesis, we administered AOM/DSS to IBD-prone SAMP and their non-inflamed
parental control strain, AKR mice. Our results showed that AOM/DSS treatment
enhanced the susceptibility of colitis in SAMP compared to AKR mice, as assessed 
by endoscopic and histologic inflammatory scores, daily weight loss and disease
activity index (DAI), during and after DSS administration. SAMP mice also showed 
increased colonic tumorigenesis, resulting in the occurrence of intramucosal
carcinoma and a higher incidence of high-grade dysplasia and tumor burden. These 
phenomena occurred even in the absence of AOM and only upon repeated cycles of
DSS. Taken together, our data demonstrate a heightened susceptibility to colonic 
inflammation and tumorigenesis in AOM/DSS-treated SAMP mice with CD-like ileitis.
This novel model represents a useful tool to investigate relevant mechanisms of
CAC, as well as for pre-clinical testing of potential IBD and colon cancer
therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174121 
PMCID: PMC5354461
PMID: 28301579 


260. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):804-813. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001062.

CYP3A4 Activity is Markedly Lower in Patients with Crohn's Disease.

Wilson A(1), Tirona RG, Kim RB.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Western
University, London, ON, Canada;†Division of Gastroenterology, Department of
Medicine, Western University, London, ON, Canada; and‡Department of Physiology & 
Pharmacology, Western University, London, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Disease-dependent changes in the activity of drug metabolizing
enzymes and transporters, such as Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and P-glycoprotein
(P-gp), are thought to have a major influence on the disposition of shared
substrates. However, little is known regarding the in vivo relevance of these 2
proteins during drug therapy for gastrointestinal diseases. Our aim was to
elucidate the activity of CYP3A4 and P-gp in subjects with Crohn's disease (CD)
and to evaluate their influence on budesonide pharmacokinetics.
METHODS: A detailed pharmacokinetic assessment was conducted in 8 individuals
diagnosed with CD on stable doses of oral budesonide, a putative shared CYP3A4,
and P-gp substrate, where hepatic and intestinal CYP3A4 activity were also
assessed using intravenous and oral midazolam. In addition, oral fexofenadine was
used as an in vivo probe for P-gp activity.
RESULTS: Budesonide area under the curve was highly variable between subjects but
similar to previously reported values in healthy subjects. The hepatic and
intestinal extraction ratios for midazolam were 0.11 ± 0.06 and 0.64 ± 0.25,
respectively; however, CYP3A4 activity was nearly 5-fold lower in our CD cohort
compared with published data among healthy subjects. Multivariate regression
revealed that only 25% budesonide clearance could be explained based on midazolam
or fexofenadine clearance.
CONCLUSIONS: Midazolam and fexofenadine disposition profile did not predict
budesonide clearance. However, we observed a marked reduction in vivo CYP3A4
activity among individuals with CD. Therefore, changes in CYP3A4 activity in
disease states such as CD may be a heretofore underappreciated determinant of
variation in drug responsiveness in CD.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001062 
PMID: 28301431 


261. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 May;23(5):781-790. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001061.

Results at Up to 30 Years After Ileal Pouch-Anal Anastomosis for Chronic
Ulcerative Colitis.

Lightner AL(1), Mathis KL, Dozois EJ, Hahnsloser D, Loftus EV Jr, Raffals LE,
Pemberton JH.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota;†Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, University Hospital of Lausanne,
Lausanne, Switzerland; and‡Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

BACKGROUND: Ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) has become the surgical procedure
of choice for patients with chronic ulcerative colitis. No study to date has
examined functional and quality-of-life outcomes 30 years after pouch
construction.
METHODS: Using data from a prospectively maintained database with annually
distributed questionnaires, functional outcomes, pouch complications, and quality
of life after IPAA were determined.
RESULTS: Overall, 93.3% of patients had a functioning pouch at 30 years. Stool
frequency during the day increased slightly from a mean of 5.7 (SD, 2.3) at 1
year to 6.2 (SD, 2.9) at 30 years (P < 0.001); nighttime frequency also increased
slightly from 1.5 (SD, 1.2) to 2.1 (SD, 1.2) (P < 0.001). Pouch outcomes and
stool frequency were significantly associated with diagnosis, being worse in
patients with Crohn's disease, but were minimally associated with age greater
than 65 years. After IPAA, the 30-year cumulative probability of pouchitis,
stricture, obstruction, and fistula were 80.2%, 56.7%, 44.0%, and 15.8%,
respectively. Quality of life scores remained stable over the 30 years.
CONCLUSIONS: IPAA is a durable operation for patients requiring proctocolectomy
for chronic ulcerative colitis and indeterminate colitis. The functional outcomes
and quality of life remained relatively unchanged over the 30 years after IPAA
underscoring the longevity of pouches.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001061 
PMID: 28301429 


262. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Mar 15. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001075. [Epub ahead of
print]

Growth Improvement with Adalimumab Treatment in Children with Moderately to
Severely Active Crohn's Disease.

Walters TD(1), Faubion WA, Griffiths AM, Baldassano RN, Escher J, Ruemmele FM,
Hyams JS, Lazar A, Eichner S, Huang B, Li Y, Thakkar RB.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, The Hospital for
Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; †Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; ‡Department of Pediatrics, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA; §Department of Pediatric
Gastroenterology, Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands; ‖Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Gastroenterology, Universite
Sorbonne Paris-Cite, Hospital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France; ¶Division of
Digestive Diseases, Hepatology and Nutrition, Connecticut Children's Medical
Center, Hartford, CT; **AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Ludwigshafen, Germany; 
and ††AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, IL.

BACKGROUND: Growth failure is common in children with Crohn's disease. The effect
of adalimumab (ADA), a fully human antitumor necrosis factor antagonist, on
height velocity in pediatric patients with baseline (BL) linear growth impairment
in the IMAgINE 1 trial is presented.
METHODS: This analysis included female and male patients with growth potential
(bone age ≤13 and ≤14 yr, respectively), with BL Pediatric Crohn's disease
Activity Index >30, and who failed or were intolerant to conventional therapy.
Patients received open-label induction ADA at weeks 0 and 2 by body weight (≥40
kg, 160 and 80 mg and <40 kg, 80 and 40 mg). At week 4, patients were randomized 
to double-blind high (40 or 20 mg for ≥40 kg or <40 kg) or low dose (20 or 10 mg 
for ≥40 kg or <40 kg) every other week ADA to week 52. Height velocity z-score
was summarized at BL, week 26, and week 52 by patients with BL growth impairment 
(z-score ≤-1.0) or normal growth (z-score >-1.0).
RESULTS: ADA therapy significantly improved and normalized growth rate at weeks
26 and 52 in patients with BL growth impairment (median z-score, BL, -3.25; week 
26, -0.34; and week 52, 0.21; P < 0.001 versus BL for both), but not in patients 
with normal growth. Growth improvement was significantly greater at week 26 in
week 4 responders to induction therapy compared with nonresponders (median
z-score 0.09 versus -2.92; P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: ADA treatment resulted in growth rate normalization as early as week
26 in children with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease and growth
impairment.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001075 
PMID: 28301428 


263. Immunol Lett. 2017 May;185:48-51. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2017.03.009. Epub 2017 Mar
11.

Altered activation of peripheral CD8+ T cells in pediatric Crohn's disease.

Orbán C(1), Szabó D(2), Bajnok A(2), Vásárhelyi B(3), Tulassay T(4), Arató A(4), 
Veres G(4), Toldi G(4).

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Pediatrics, Semmelweis University, Bókay u. 53, H-1083
Budapest, Hungary; Department of Dietetics and Nutrition Sciences, Faculty of
Health Sciences, Semmelweis University, Vas u. 17, H-1088 Budapest, Hungary.
Electronic address: orbancsaba1988@gmail.com. (2)First Department of Pediatrics, 
Semmelweis University, Bókay u. 53, H-1083 Budapest, Hungary. (3)Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, H-1089 Budapest,
Hungary; Bionics Innovation Centre, 1089 Szentkirályi u 8, H-1085 Budapest,
Hungary. (4)First Department of Pediatrics, Semmelweis University, Bókay u. 53,
H-1083 Budapest, Hungary; MTA-SE, Pediatrics and Nephrology Research Group, Bókay
u. 53, H-1083 Budapest, Hungary.

AIM: Although Crohn's disease (CD) is an extensively investigated autoimmune
condition, knowledge on early phase activation of lymphocytes, especially CD8+ Tc
cells is scarce. Our aim was to investigate the calcium influx characteristics of
CD8+ cells upon activation as well as the expression and function of Kv1.3 and
IKCa1 lymphocyte potassium channels.
METHODS: We took peripheral blood from 12 healthy controls, 23 CD children on
conventional therapy and 6 severe CD children before and after infliximab
therapy. Intracellular calcium levels were monitored in CD8+ lymphocytes using
flow cytometry.
RESULTS: In CD treated with standard therapy calcium response during activation
was elevated. This was not affected by the inhibition of Kv1.3 or IKCa1 potassium
channels. After the switch to infliximab potassium channel function and
expression of CD8+ lymphocytes were comparable to healthy controls in severe CD.
CONCLUSION: Calcium handling of CD8+ lymphocytes is altered in pediatric CD,
which is normalized by infliximab therapy.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2017.03.009 
PMID: 28300604 


264. Autoimmunity. 2017 Mar 16:1-2. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2017.1300883. [Epub ahead of
print]

Complex interaction between HNRNPD mutations and risk polymorphisms is associated
with discordant Crohn's disease in monozygotic twins.

Prakash T(1), Veerappa A(2), B Ramachandra N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Genetics and Genomics Lab, Department of Studies in Genetics and Genomics , 
University of Mysore , Mysuru , India. (2)b Laboratory of Genomic Sciences,
Department of Studies in Genetics and Genomics , University of Mysore , Mysuru , 
India.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affecting the 
lining of digestive tracts of the colon and ileum. To investigate the reasons
behind the presence of CD phenotype in one of the monozygotic (MZ) twins, we
utilized the whole exome sequence (WES) datasets of CD tissue biopsy and CD blood
of affected twin and the exome dataset of blood from healthy twin. We report the 
presence of discordant and rare damaging mutation in HNRNPD and other risk
polymorphisms such as, rs12103, rs2241880, rs3810936, rs7076156, rs1042058 and
rs1292053. HNRNPD was found carrying two novel heterozygous mutations - a stop
gain mutation that truncated the protein at 249th and 268th amino acid position
and a single base missense mutation replacing Aspartate with Valine at 300th
amino acid. The identified risk polymorphisms were found conferring
susceptibility to CD and IBD. Discordant deleterious and damaging mutation was
detected in HNRNPD that have been implicated in inflammatory pathways.
Integrating these variants led to the elucidation of pathophysiology of CD in the
affected twin involving the causal processes of macrophage activation, tissue
death, autophagy, immune response, cell-migration and T-cell activation.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2017.1300883 
PMID: 28300425 


265. World J Radiol. 2017 Feb 28;9(2):46-54. doi: 10.4329/wjr.v9.i2.46.

Magnetic resonance enterography in Crohn's disease: How we do it and common
imaging findings.

Mantarro A(1), Scalise P(1), Guidi E(1), Neri E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Annalisa Mantarro, Paola Scalise, Elisa Guidi, Emanuele Neri, Department of
Translational Research and New Techno-logies in Medicine and Surgery, Diagnostic 
Radiology, 56126 Pisa, Italy.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal
tract, with unpredictable clinical course by phases of relapses alternating with 
other of quiescence. The etiology is multifactorial and is still not completely
known; globally the westernization of lifestyle is causing an increasing
incidence of CD, with peak age of 20-30 years. The diagnostic workup begins with 
the evaluation of the clinical history, physical examination and laboratory
tests. However, the clinical assessment is subjected interobserver variability
and, occasionally, the symptoms of acute and chronic inflammation may be
indistinguishable. In this regards, the role of magnetic resonance (MR)
enterography is crucial to determine the extension, the disease activity and the 
presence of any complications without ionizing radiations, making this method
very suitable for young population affected by CD. The purpose of this review
article is to illustrate the MR enterography technique and the most relevant
imaging findings of CD, allowing the detection of small bowel involvement and the
assessment of disease activity.

DOI: 10.4329/wjr.v9.i2.46 
PMCID: PMC5334501
PMID: 28298964 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: No potential
conflicts of interest and no financial support.


266. J Ultrasound. 2017 Jan 2;20(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/s40477-016-0230-5. eCollection
2017.

SICUS and CEUS imaging in Crohn's disease: an update.

Mocci G(1), Migaleddu V(2), Cabras F(1), Sirigu D(2), Scanu D(2), Virgilio G(2), 
Marzo M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Brotzu Hospital, Cagliari, Italy. (2)Sardinian
Mediterranean Imaging Research Group, SMIRG No-profit Foundation, Via Gorizia 11,
07100 Sassari, Italy.

Endoscopy remains the main technique in the diagnosis and treatment of Crohn's
disease (CD); nevertheless, the recent development of innovative and non-invasive
imaging techniques has led to a new tool in the exploration of small bowel in CD 
patients. This paper reviews the available data on ultrasound imaging used for
the evaluation of CD, highlighting the role of small intestine contrast-enhanced 
ultrasonography with the use of oral and intravenous contrast agents.

Publisher: Nell’iter diagnostico e terapeutico della malattia di Crohn
l’endoscopia rappresenta la principale metodica strumentale. Tuttavia, la recente
introduzione di tecniche di imaging innovative e non invasive ha implementato lo 
studio dell’intestino nelle malattie infiammatorie croniche intestinali. La
seguente revisione raccoglie i dati disponibili in letteratura relativi
all’utilizzo dell’ecografia con mezzo di contrasto, sia orale (SICUS) sia
endovenoso (CEUS), nella valutazione dei pazienti affetti da malattia di Crohn.
DOI: 10.1007/s40477-016-0230-5 
PMCID: PMC5334271 [Available on 2018-03-01]
PMID: 28298939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Radiol Bras. 2017 Jan-Feb;50(1):13-18. doi: 10.1590/0100-3984.2015.0131.

Using computed tomography enterography to evaluate patients with Crohn's disease:
what impact does examiner experience have on the reproducibility of the method?

Burlin S(1), Favaro LR(2), Bretas EA(3), Taniguchi LS(2), Loch AP(4), Argollo
MC(5), Ambrogini Junior O(6), D'Ippolito G(7).

Author information: 
(1)MD, Radiologist in the Department of Diagnostic Imaging of the Escola Paulista
de Medicina da Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-Unifesp), São Paulo, SP,
Brazil. (2)MD, Radiologist, Specialist in Abdominal Imaging in the Department of 
Diagnostic Imaging of the Escola Paulista de Medicina da Universidade Federal de 
São Paulo (EPM-Unifesp), São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (3)MD, Radiologist, Graduate
Student in Abdominal Imaging in the Department of Diagnostic Imaging of the
Escola Paulista de Medicina da Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-Unifesp),
São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (4)Pharmacist, Graduate Student in Preventive Medicine at 
the Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), São Paulo, SP,
Brazil. (5)MD, Graduate Student in Clinical Gastroenterology, Discipline of
Clinical Medicine, Department of Medicine of the Escola Paulista de Medicina da
Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-Unifesp), São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (6)PhD,
Affiliate Professor, Discipline of Clinical Medicine, Department of Medicine of
the Escola Paulista de Medicina da Universidade Federal de São Paulo
(EPM-Unifesp), São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (7)Tenured Adjunct Professor in the
Department of Diagnostic Imaging of the Escola Paulista de Medicina da
Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-Unifesp), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact that examiner experience has on the
reproducibility and accuracy of computed tomography (CT) enterography in the
detection of radiological signs in patients with Crohn's disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective, cross-sectional observational
study involving the analysis of CT enterography scans of 20 patients with Crohn's
disease. The exams were analyzed independently by two radiologists in their last 
year of residence (duo I) and by two abdominal imaging specialists (duo II). The 
interobserver agreement of each pair of examiners in identifying the main
radiological signs was calculated with the kappa test. The accuracy of the
examiners with less experience was quantified by using the consensus among three 
experienced examiners as a reference.
RESULTS: Duo I and duo II obtained a similar interobserver agreement, with a
moderate to good correlation, for mural hyperenhancement, parietal thickening,
mural stratification, fat densification, and comb sign (kappa: 0.45-0.64). The
less experienced examiners showed an accuracy > 80% for all signs, except for
lymph nodes and fistula, for which it ranged from 60% to 75%.
CONCLUSION: Less experienced examiners have a tendency to present a level of
interobserver agreement similar to that of experienced examiners in evaluating
Crohn's disease through CT enterography, as well as showing satisfactory accuracy
in identifying most radiological signs of the disease.

Publisher: Avaliar o impacto da experiência do examinador na reprodutibilidade e 
na acurácia de detecção de sinais radiológicos em exames de enterografia por
tomografia computadorizada (entero-TC) de pacientes portadores da doença de
Crohn.Análise retrospectiva de exames de entero-TC de 20 pacientes com doença de 
Crohn. Os exames foram analisados, independentemente, por dois radiologistas do
último ano de residência (dupla I) e dois especialistas em imagem abdominal
(dupla II). A concordância interobservador de cada dupla de examinadores para a
identificação dos principais sinais tomográficos foi calculada pelo teste kappa. 
A acurácia da dupla I foi medida usando-se como referência um consenso entre três
examinadores experientes.Ambas as duplas obtiveram concordância interobservador
semelhante e com correlação moderada a boa para os sinais de estratificação
mural, espessamento da parede, realce mucoso, densificação da gordura e sinal do 
pente (kappa: 0,45-0,64). Os examinadores menos experientes apresentaram acurácia
superior a 80% para os sinais, exceto para linfonodos e fístula (entre 60% e
75%).Examinadores menos experientes têm tendência a apresentar grau de
concordância entre si semelhante à de examinadores experientes na avaliação dos
principais sinais tomográficos da doença de Crohn, com acurácia considerada
satisfatória, para a maioria dos sinais.
DOI: 10.1590/0100-3984.2015.0131 
PMCID: PMC5347498
PMID: 28298727 


268. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr;23(4):E18. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001083.

Adherence to Postoperative Endoscopic Surveillance in Patients with Crohn's
Disease.

Cohen-Mekelburg S(1), Schneider Y, Scherl E, Steinlauf A.

Author information: 
(1)NewYork Presbyterian Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, New York.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001083 
PMID: 28296828 


269. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr;23(4):593-602. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001045.

Protease-activated Receptor 1 Plays a Proinflammatory Role in Colitis by
Promoting Th17-related Immunity.

Saeed MA(1), Ng GZ, Däbritz J, Wagner J, Judd L, Han JX, Dhar P, Kirkwood CD,
Sutton P.

Author information: 
(1)*Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; †Centre for Animal Biotechnology, Faculty of
Veterinary and Agricultural Science, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia; ‡Department of Paediatrics, University Medicine Rostock,
Rostock, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany; and §Department of Paediatrics,
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Proteolytic cleavage of protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) can
result in potent downstream regulatory effects on inflammation. Although PAR1 is 
expressed throughout the gastrointestinal tract and activating proteases are
increased in inflammatory bowel disease, the effect of PAR1 activation on colitis
remains poorly understood, and has not previously been studied in pediatric
disease.
METHODS: Expression of PAR1 and inflammatory cytokines in colonic biopsies from
pediatric patients with Crohn's disease exhibiting active moderate to severe
colitis was measured by quantitative PCR. The functional relevance of these
clinical data was further studied in a mouse model of Citrobacter
rodentium-induced colitis.
RESULTS: PAR1 expression was significantly upregulated in the inflamed colons of 
pediatric patients with Crohn's disease, with expression levels directly
correlating to disease severity. In patients with severe colitis, PAR1 expression
uniquely correlated with Th17-related (IL17A, IL22, and IL23A) cytokines.
Infection of PAR1-deficient (PAR1) and wildtype mice with colitogenic C.
rodentium revealed that disease severity and colonic pathology were strongly
attenuated in mice lacking PAR1. Furthermore, Th17-type immune response was
completely abolished in the colons of infected PAR1 but not wildtype mice.
Finally, PAR1 was shown to be essential for secretion of the Th17-driving
cytokine IL-23 by C. rodentium-stimulated macrophages.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates a strong link between PAR1 expression,
Th17-type immunity, and disease severity in both pediatric patients with Crohn's 
disease and C. rodentium-induced colitis in mice. The data presented suggest PAR1
exerts a proinflammatory role in colitis in both humans and mice by promoting a
Th17-type immune response, potentially by supporting the production of IL-23.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001045 
PMID: 28296821 


270. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Mar;96(11):e6378. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006378.

Efficacy and safety of medical therapy for low bone mineral density in patients
with Crohn disease: A systematic review with network meta-analysis.

Zhao X(1), Zhou C, Chen H, Ma J, Zhu Y, Wang P, Zhang Y, Ma H, Zhang H.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing
Medical University bDepartment of Urology, Nanjing First Hospital, Nanjing
Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.

BACKGROUND: Low bone mineral density (BMD) is a frequent complication of
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), particularly in patients with Crohn disease
(CD). The aim of our study is to determine the efficacy and safety of different
drugs used to treat low BMD in patients with CD.
METHODS: PUBMED/MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled
Trials were searched for eligible studies. A random-effects model within a
Bayesian framework was applied to compare treatment effects as standardized mean 
difference (SMD) with their corresponding 95% credible interval (CrI), while odds
ratio (OR) was applied to compare adverse events with 95% CrI. The surface under 
the cumulative ranking area (SUCRA) was calculated to make the ranking of the
treatments for outcomes.
RESULTS: Twelve randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were eligible. Compared with 
placebo, zoledronate (SMDs 2.74, 95% CrI 1.36-4.11) and sodium-fluoride (SMDs
1.23, 95% CrI 0.19-2.26) revealed statistical significance in increasing lumbar
spine BMD (LSBMD). According to SUCRA ranking, zoledronate (SUCRA = 2.5%) might
have the highest probability to be the best treatment for increasing LSBMD in CD 
patients among all agents, followed by sodium-fluoride (27%). For safety
assessment, the incidence of adverse events (AEs) demonstrated no statistical
difference between agents and placebo. The corresponding SUCRA values indicated
that risedronate (SUCRA = 77%) might be the most safe medicine for low BMD in CD 
patients and alendronate ranked the worst (SUCRA = 16%).
CONCLUSIONS: Zoledronate might have the highest probability to be the best
therapeutic strategy for increasing LSBMD. For the safety assessment, risedronate
showed the greatest trend to decrease the risk of AEs. In the future, more RCTs
with higher qualities are needed to make head-to-head comparison between 2 or
more treatments.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006378 
PMCID: PMC5369936
PMID: 28296781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Mar;96(11):e6329. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006329.

Inflammatory bowel diseases: a burden in pediatrics: Case series and a review of 
the literature.

Mărginean CO(1), Meliţ LE, Mocanu S, Mărginean MO.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Pediatrics I, University of Medicine and Pharmacy bDepartment
of Pathology, County Hospital, Tîrgu Mureş, Romania.

INTRODUCTION: Inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic condition of the
gastrointestinal tract, comprising mainly Crohn disease (CD) and ulcerative
colitis (UC). Both of them are frequently encountered in children, being
multifactorial conditions, with an unclear etiology.
PATIENTS CONCERNS: We present 4 cases of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in
children in order to underline the variable evolution depending on the patient's 
particularities.
DIAGNOSIS, INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: The first case, a 13-year-old male
patient, with a history of Henoch-Schonlein purpura, was admitted for rectal
bleeding and weight loss, with normal laboratory parameters. The colonoscopy and 
the histopathological examination established the diagnosis of UC. The evolution 
was initially favorable under corticosteroids and sulfasalazine, but with 3
relapses in 2 years. The second case, a 16-year-old male patient, with a history 
of lactose intolerance and constipation, was admitted for bloody, diarrheic
stools, the laboratory tests pointing out only leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
The colonoscopy and histopathological examination established the diagnosis of
UC. The patient's evolution was slowly favorable. The third case, a 9-year old
male patient, with emotional disorders and babbling, admitted for semiconsistent,
bloody stools, with increased inflammatory tests, whose colonoscopy pointed out
diffuse edema and hemorrhages, the histopathological examination establishing the
diagnosis of CD. The evolution was initially favorable, but with 5 relapses in 3 
years. The last case, a 12-year-old male patient, was admitted with diarrheic,
bloody stools, refractory to antibiotics, and weight loss, with increased
inflammatory tests. The colonoscopy pointed out ulcerations, hemorrhages, and
disseminated puss deposits. The histopathological examination established the
diagnosis of CD. The patient's evolution was favorable, with only 1 relapse in 3 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: The adequate management, especially the self-management can
influence the prognosis of patients with IBD, even though it is unpredictable and
burdened by the risk of malignant transformation.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006329 
PMCID: PMC5369910
PMID: 28296755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Mar;96(11):e6323. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006323.

Serum platelet factor 4 is a reliable activity parameter in adult patients with
inflammatory bowel disease: A pilot study.

Ye L(1), Zhang YP, Yu N, Jia YX, Wan SJ, Wang FY.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Gastroenterology and Hepatology bDepartment of Clinical
Laboratory, Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing University, Nanjing,
Jiangsu Province, China.

To investigate the diagnostic utility of serum platelet factor 4 (PF4) levels and
to assess its accuracy in detecting inflammatory bowel disease activity.This
study included 45 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), 45 patients with Crohn
disease (CD), and 30 control subjects at Jinling Hospital between May 2014 and
July 2015. Laboratory tests measured white blood count, C-reactive protein,
erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and platelet count. PF4 was examined by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Patients were divided into 2 groups according
to disease activity: active and inactive.Median PF4 values dramatically increased
in UC and CD patients compared with the healthy group (UC: 26.64
[20.00-36.22] mg/mL vs 20.02 [14.63-26.83] mg/mL, P = 0.002; CD: 25.56
[18.57-36.36] mg/mL vs 20.02 [14.63-26.83] mg/mL, P = 0.014); however, the serum 
PF4 levels between UC and CD failed to show a significant difference (26.64
[20.00-36.22] mg/mL vs 25.56 [18.57-36.36] mg/mL, P = 0.521). Furthermore, serum 
PF4 levels were elevated in both UC and CD patients with active disease (UC:
20.19 [14.89-23.53] mg/mL vs 28.86 [22.57-37.29] mg/mL, P < 0.001; CD: 18.33
[16.72-25.77] mg/mL vs 34.38 [22.58-39.92] mg/mL, P < 0.001). Multivariate
analysis revealed higher PF4 level as an independent predictor of disease
activity in UC and CD patients (UC: odds ratio 30.375, P = 0.002; CD: odds ratio 
54.167, P < 0.001). The cut-off level of PF4 for distinguishing active from
inactive UC patients was 24.1 mg/mL. While in CD patients, the cut-off level of
PF4 was 19.24 mg/mL.Serum PF4 levels could be a potential biomarker for
monitoring the disease activity of inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006323 
PMCID: PMC5369906
PMID: 28296751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Liver Transpl. 2017 Mar 14. doi: 10.1002/lt.24757. [Epub ahead of print]

Vedolizumab is Safe and Effective in Moderate to Severe Inflammatory Bowel
Disease Following Liver Transplantation.

Wright AP(1), Fontana RJ(1), Stidham RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.24757 
PMID: 28296011 


274. J Cutan Pathol. 2017 Mar 14. doi: 10.1111/cup.12928. [Epub ahead of print]

Cutaneous Crohn's disease with superimposed psoriasis: A unique case with
overlapping histology.

Friedman BJ(1), Dasgeb B(1), Lee JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology & Cutaneous Biology, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Crohn's disease (CD) is an idiopathic, chronic inflammatory disorder of the
gastrointestinal tract. We recently encountered a unique case in which a patient 
with longstanding CD presented with skin lesions with histopathologic features of
both psoriasis and granulomatous inflammation suggestive of cutaneous CD. To our 
knowledge, this has not been described concomitantly in the same patient, in the 
same lesions. Review of the literature suggests that the intersection of these 2 
histopathological reaction patterns may not be pure coincidence.
Clinical-pathologic correlation of this case will be discussed, along with a
review of the potential mechanisms of this unique disease presentation.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.12928 
PMID: 28294378 


275. J Cell Physiol. 2017 Mar 15. doi: 10.1002/jcp.25911. [Epub ahead of print]

Probiotics Are a Good Choice in Remission of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases: A Meta 
Analysis and Systematic Review.

Ganji-Arjenaki M(1), Rafieian-Kopaei M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Plants Research Center, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences,
Shahrekord, Iran.

Altered gut bacteria and bacterial metabolic pathways are two important factors
in initiation and progression of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However,
efficacy of probiotics in remission of patients with IBD has not been
characterized. This study was performed on the studies that specifically assessed
the efficacy of probiotics in attaining clinical response on patients with
various types of IBD. The efficacy of variant species of probiotics in different 
conditions and the influence of study quality in outcomes of randomized
controlled trials (RCTs) were also assessed. The RCTs were collected by searching
in MEDLINE Web of Science and Google scholar. Then all studies were abstracted in
abstraction form and the outcomes were analyzed with fixed-effect and
mixed-effect models for assessment of efficacy of variant species of probiotics
in subgroups of IBDs. Analysis of 9 trials showed that probiotics had not
significant effect on Crohn's disease (CD) (p = 0.07) but analysis of 3 trials in
children with IBD revealed a significant advantage (p< 0.01). Analysis of 18
trials revealed that probiotics in patients with Ulcerative colitis (UC) in
different conditions have significant effects (p = 0.007). VSL#3 probiotics in
patients with UC had significant effect (p < 0.01). Combination of Lactobacillus 
probiotic, prebiotics had significant effect (p= 0.03) only in patients with UC. 
Combination of Saccharomyces boulardii, Lactobacillus and VSL#3 probiotics in CD 
had also a trend for efficiency (p= 0.057). In children with IBD, the combination
of Lactobacillus with VSL#3 probiotics had significant effect (p < 0.01).
Probiotics are beneficial in IBD, especially the combination ones in UC. This
article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.25911 
PMID: 28294322 


276. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2017 May;32(5):661-666. doi: 10.1007/s00384-017-2794-8.
Epub 2017 Mar 14.

Long-standing Crohn's disease and its implication on anal squamous cell cancer
management.

Lightner AL(1), Moncrief SB(2), Smyrk TC(3), Pemberton JH(2), Haddock MG(4),
Larson DW(2), Dozois EJ(2), Mathis KL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st St SW, Rochester,
MN, 55905, USA. Lightner.amy@mayo.edu. (2)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery,
Mayo Clinic, 200 1st St SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. (3)Division of Pathology
and Laboratory Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. (4)Division of
Radiation Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC) is rare, accounting for only 1%
of gastrointestinal malignancies. We sought to better understand management
strategies for ASCC in the setting of Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: A retrospective chart review from 2001 to 2016 was conducted using
ICD-9/10 codes for CD (555.9/K50) and ASCC (154.3/C44.520). Adult patients with a
diagnosis of CD at the time of ASCC diagnosis were included.
RESULTS: Seven patients (five female) were included with a median age of
50 years. The majority presented with perianal pain (three) and bleeding (four). 
Mean duration of CD was 20 years. Five patients had active perianal fistulizing
disease at the time of ASCC diagnosis. Clinical stage at diagnosis of ASCC was
stage 0 (n = 1), stage I (n = 1), stage II (n = 1), stage III (n = 2), stage IV
(n = 1), and unknown (n = 1). All patients were treated with radiation and
chemotherapy. Three patients experienced complications during radiation therapy: 
fistulizing disease, stenotic disease, and flap necrosis. Two patients had
persistent disease at 6 months; one patient underwent abdominoperineal resection 
(APR) and the other chemotherapy and radiation. Two patients developed locally
residual and metastatic disease and died within 1 year of diagnosis. Five-year
disease-free survival was 56%.
CONCLUSIONS: While the standard Nigro protocol remains standard of care in
patients with ASCC, in the setting of CD, patients may be best approached as a
case-by-case basis and may even require an operation first due to complications
from radiation and aggressive nature of disease. Due to poor treatment outcomes, 
surveillance guidelines for this patient population are necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-017-2794-8 
PMID: 28293746 


277. Biomed Res Int. 2017;2017:5741948. doi: 10.1155/2017/5741948. Epub 2017 Feb 14.

Identification of Candidate Genes Related to Inflammatory Bowel Disease Using
Minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance, Incremental Feature Selection, and the
Shortest-Path Approach.

Yuan F(1), Zhang YH(2), Kong XY(2), Cai YD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Science & Technology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital,
Binzhou 256603, Shandong, China. (2)Institute of Health Sciences, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031,
China. (3)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, China.

Identification of disease genes is a hot topic in biomedicine and genomics.
However, it is a challenging problem because of the complexity of diseases.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is an idiopathic disease caused by a
dysregulated immune response to host intestinal microflora. It has been proven to
be associated with the development of intestinal malignancies. Although the
specific pathological characteristics and genetic background of IBD have been
partially revealed, it is still an overdetermined disease and the blueprint of
all genetic variants still needs to be improved. In this study, a novel
computational method was built to identify genes related to IBD. Samples from two
subtypes of IBD (ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) and normal samples were 
employed. By analyzing the gene expression profiles of these samples using
minimum redundancy maximum relevance and incremental feature selection, 21 genes 
were obtained that could effectively distinguish samples from the two subtypes of
IBD and the normal samples. Then, the shortest-path approach was used to search
for an additional 20 genes in a large network constructed using protein-protein
interactions based on the above-mentioned 21 genes. Analyses of the 41 genes
obtained indicate that they are closely associated with this disease.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/5741948 
PMCID: PMC5331171
PMID: 28293637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interests regarding the publication of this article.


278. Front Immunol. 2017 Feb 28;8:191. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00191. eCollection
2017.

A Potential Role of Salmonella Infection in the Onset of Inflammatory Bowel
Diseases.

Schultz BM(1), Paduro CA(1), Salazar GA(1), Salazar-Echegarai FJ(1), Sebastián
VP(1), Riedel CA(2), Kalergis AM(3), Alvarez-Lobos M(4), Bueno SM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Departamento de Genética Molecular y
Microbiología, Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile , Santiago , Chile. (2)Facultad de Ciencias
Biológicas y Facultad de Medicina, Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas,
Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Universidad Andrés Bello , 
Santiago , Chile. (3)Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Departamento de Genética
Molecular y Microbiología, Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile; Facultad de Medicina, 
Departamento de Endocrinología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile,
Santiago, Chile; INSERM, UMR 1064, Nantes, France. (4)Facultad de Medicina,
Departamento de Gastroenterología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile ,
Santiago , Chile. (5)Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Departamento de Genética
Molecular y Microbiología, Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile; INSERM, UMR 1064,
Nantes, France.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) includes a set of pathologies that result from a
deregulated immune response that may affect any portion of the gastrointestinal
tract. The most prevalent and defined forms of IBD are Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis. Although the etiology of IBD is not well defined, it has been
suggested that environmental and genetic factors contribute to disease
development and that the interaction between these two factors can trigger the
pathology. Diet, medication use, vitamin D status, smoking, and bacterial
infections have been proposed to influence or contribute to the onset or
development of the disease in susceptible individuals. The infection with
pathogenic bacteria is a key factor that can influence the development and
severity of this disease. Here, we present a comprehensive review of studies
performed in human and mice susceptible to IBD, which supports the notion that
infection with bacterial pathogens, such as Salmonella, could promote the onset
of IBD due to permanent changes in the intestinal microbiota, disruption of the
epithelial barrier and alterations of the intestinal immune response after
infection.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00191 
PMCID: PMC5329042
PMID: 28293241 


279. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Feb 28;23(8):1489-1496. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i8.1489.

Clinical correlations of infliximab trough levels and antibodies to infliximab in
South Korean patients with Crohn's disease.

Oh EH(1), Ko DH(1), Seo H(1), Chang K(1), Kim GU(1), Song EM(1), Seo M(1), Lee
HS(1), Hwang SW(1), Yang DH(1), Ye BD(1), Byeon JS(1), Myung SJ(1), Yang SK(1),
Park SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eun Hye Oh, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ulsan College of
Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, South Korea.

AIM: To investigate the clinical implications of infliximab trough levels
(IFX-TLs) and antibodies to infliximab (ATI) levels in Crohn's disease (CD)
patients in Asian countries.
METHODS: IFX-TL and ATI level were measured using prospectively collected samples
obtained with informed consent from CD patients being treated at Asan Medical
Center, South Korea. We analyzed the correlations between IFX-TLs/ATI levels and 
the clinical activity of CD (quiescent vs active disease) based on the CD
activity index, C-reactive protein level, and physician's judgment of patients'
clinical status at enrollment. The impact of concomitant immunomodulators was
also investigated.
RESULTS: This study enrolled 138 patients with CD (84 with quiescent and 54 with 
active disease). In patients with quiescent and active diseases, the median
IFX-TLs were 1.423 μg/mL and 0.163 μg/mL, respectively (P < 0.001) and the median
ATI levels were 8.064 AU/mL and 11.209 AU/mL, respectively (P < 0.001). In the
ATI-negative and -positive groups, the median IFX-TLs were 1.415 μg/mL and 0.141 
μg/mL, respectively (P < 0.001). In patients with and without concomitant
immunomodulator use, there were no differences in IFX-TLs (0.632 μg/mL and 1.150 
μg/mL, respectively; P = 0.274) or ATI levels (8.655 AU/mL and 9.017 AU/mL,
respectively; P = 0.083).
CONCLUSION: IFX-TL/ATI levels were well correlated with the clinical activity in 
South Korean CD patients. Our findings support the usefulness of IFX-TLs/ATI
levels in treating CD patients receiving IFX in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i8.1489 
PMCID: PMC5330834
PMID: 28293096 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All the authors
have no conflict of interest related to the manuscript.


280. Sci Signal. 2017 Mar 14;10(470). pii: eaan1407. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.aan1407.

Papers of note in Science Translational Medicine9 (380).

Ferrarelli LK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Science Signaling, AAAS, Washington, DC 20005, USA.

This week's articles describe an antibody that inhibits two pathways that drive
lung cancer and a new way to lessen colitis in Crohn's disease.

Copyright © 2017, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/scisignal.aan1407 
PMID: 28292951 


281. Dig Liver Dis. 2017 Feb 28. pii: S1590-8658(17)30238-4. doi:
10.1016/j.dld.2017.02.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Cross-sectional evaluation of transmural healing in patients with Crohn's disease
on maintenance treatment with anti-TNF alpha agents.

Castiglione F(1), Mainenti P(2), Testa A(3), Imperatore N(3), De Palma GD(4),
Maurea S(5), Rea M(3), Nardone OM(3), Sanges M(3), Caporaso N(3), Rispo A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, School of
Medicine "Federico II" of Naples, Italy. Electronic address: fabcasti@unina.it.
(2)Radiology, IBB-CNR Naples, Italy. (3)Gastroenterology, Department of Clinical 
Medicine and Surgery, School of Medicine "Federico II" of Naples, Italy.
(4)Surgical Endoscopy, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, School of
Medicine "Federico II" of Naples, Italy. (5)Radiology, Department of Advanced
Biomedical Sciences, University "Federico I", Napoli, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Transmural healing (TH) of Crohn's disease (CD) is a still unexplored
and interesting outcome correlated to concept of deep remission.
AIM: To assess the rate of TH in CD patients treated with anti-TNF alpha agents
using two cross-sectional procedures: bowel sonography (BS) and magnetic
resonance enterography (MRE).
METHODS: We performed a 2-year observational longitudinal study, evaluating
steroid-free clinical remission (CR), mucosal healing (MH), and TH in CD patients
who would complete a 2-year treatment period with anti-TNFs. All patients
underwent endoscopy, BS, and MRE before and after 2 years of treatment.
RESULTS: Forty out of 80 CD patients were treated with anti-TNFs for 2 years. CR 
was achieved in 24 patients (60%) while MH in 14 (35%). Using BS, TH was observed
in 10 patients (25%), while using MRE, TH was observed in 9 patients (23%)
(k=0.90; P<0.01). A good agreement was observed between MH and TH, both using BS 
(k=0.63; P<0.01) and MRE (k=0.64; P<0.01). A poor agreement was found between CR 
and TH, with both BS and MRE (k=0.27 and 0.29, respectively; P<0.01); even though
all patients with TH had achieved CR.
CONCLUSIONS: TH can be achieved in about 25% of CD patients treated with
anti-TNFs, as shown by BS and MRE. BS could be used as the first cross-sectional 
procedure to detect TH.

Copyright © 2017 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2017.02.014 
PMID: 28292640 


282. Pan Afr Med J. 2016 Oct 31;25:124. doi: 10.11604/pamj.2016.25.124.10718.
eCollection 2016.

Crohn's disease and schistosomiasis: a rare association.

Limaiem F(1), Sassi A(1), Mzabi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Tunis El Manar, Faculty of Medicine of Tunis, 1007, Tunisia.

Schistosomiasis is a chronic enteropathogenic disease caused by blood flukes of
the genus Schistosoma. Coexistence of schistosomiasis with Crohn's disease is
very rare. To the best of our knowledge, this association has been described in
literature only once. A 20-year-old male patient with a past medical history of
appendectomy and ileocecal Crohn's disease, presented with abdominal pain and
vomiting. Ileocolonoscopy showed an ulcerated and congested appearance of the
upper rectum and sigmoid. Computed tomography scan revealed a circumferential
thickening of the terminal ileum with luminal stenosis. Histopathological
examination of the biopsy specimens revealed a focally ulcerated colonic
epithelium. The lamina propria was fibrous harbouring a polymorphic inflammatory 
infiltrate including lymphocytes and plasma cells organized in lymphoid follicles
admixed with eosinophils and neutrophils. In the submucosa, there were two
well-preserved schistosoma eggs surrounded by a thick shell with a barely visible
terminal spine. The final pathological diagnosis was colonic schistosomiasis
associated with Crohn's disease. The patient underwent an ileocecal resection for
stenosis of the terminal ileum complicated with enterocutaneous fistula. The
postoperative course was uneventful. A stool examination and serology tests were 
planned for this patient who was lost to follow-up.

DOI: 10.11604/pamj.2016.25.124.10718 
PMCID: PMC5325510
PMID: 28292086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


283. Eur Radiol. 2017 Mar 13. doi: 10.1007/s00330-017-4776-1. [Epub ahead of print]

Anoperineal disease in Hidradenitis Suppurativa : MR imaging distinction from
perianal Crohn's disease.

Monnier L(1), Dohan A(2,)(3), Amara N(4), Zagdanski AM(5), Drame M(6), Soyer
P(3), Hoeffel C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Hôpital Maison Blanche, Avenue du Général Koenig,
51092, Reims Cedex, France. louisemonnier@live.fr. (2)Department of Radiology,
Hôpital Lariboisière, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 2 rue Ambroise Paré,
75010, Paris, France. (3)Université Paris-Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 10 Avenue
de Verdun, 75010, Paris, France. (4)Department of Radiology, Hôpital Maison
Blanche, Avenue du Général Koenig, 51092, Reims Cedex, France. (5)Department of
Radiology, Saint Louis Hospital, 1 Avenue Claude Vellefaux, 75010, Paris, France.
(6)Department of Statistics, Hôpital Robert Debré, Avenue du Général Koenig,
51092, Reims Cedex, France.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS)-related anoperineal
disease can be distinguished from Crohn's disease (CD) using MRI.
METHODS: Pelvic MRI of 23 HS and 46 CD patients with anoperineal disease between 
2007 and 2014 were independently analysed by two radiologists. For diagnosis of
HS, sensitivity, specificity and positive likelihood ratios (LRs) of inflammatory
features and of their anatomical distribution were calculated and compared to
those of CD.
RESULTS: In HS, fistulae were less present (P = .033) and less frequently
involved the sphincters (P = .001) than in CD. Granulomas were more frequent
(P = .0005). For anterior/inguinal and posterior localizations, sensitivity,
specificity and LR for diagnosis of HS were 70% (49.1, 84.4), 87% (74.3, 93.9),
5.3 (2.41, 11.79) and 57% (36.8, 74.4), 93% (82.5, 97.8), 8.67 (2.74, 27.41),
respectively. Combination of signs including posterior involvement, absence of
rectal wall thickening and bilaterality of features yielded specificity of 100%
(95% CI: 92.3-100) for HS.
CONCLUSION: Although MRI presentations of anoperineal disease may overlap between
CD and HS, specific diagnosis of HS is possible with a combination of three
features: absence of features' predominance in perianal area, absence of rectal
wall thickening and bilaterality of features.
KEY POINTS: • Spectrum of MRI features of HS-related anoperineal disease is wide.
• Specific diagnosis of HS-related anoperineal disease is possible using MR
imaging. • A combination of three MR signs allows distinction between HS and CD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-017-4776-1 
PMID: 28289934 


284. Pediatr Rheumatol Online J. 2017 Mar 14;15(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3.

Inflammatory bowel disease following anti-interleukin-1-treatment in systemic
juvenile idiopathic arthritis.

Hügle B(1), Speth F(2), Haas JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)German Center for Pediatric and Adolescent Rheumatology (GCPAR),
Gehfeldstrasse 24, 82467, Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
huegle.boris@rheuma-kinderklinik.de. (2)German Center for Pediatric and
Adolescent Rheumatology (GCPAR), Gehfeldstrasse 24, 82467,
Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease can develop in the context of some
rheumatic diseases in childhood, including juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is frequently associated with other
immune-mediated diseases; however, systemic onset JIA (sJIA) has not previously
been connected to IBD. Treatment of sJIA has significantly changed in recent
years, possibly causing changes in inflammatory patterns. Therefore, data from
the German Center for Pediatric and Adolescent Rheumtology from 2010 until 2015
were analyzed by retrospective chart review.
FINDINGS: Eighty-two patients with confirmed diagosis of sJIA were found. Of
these, three were identified with a diagnosis of IBD confirmed by colonoscopy
(two cases of Crohn's disease, one case of ulcerative colitis) 0.8 - 4.3 years
after diagnosis. All three were treated with IL-1 antagonists (anakinra in two
cases, canakinumab in one case) and were well controlled for sJIA symptoms at
time of diagnosis of IBD CONCLUSIONS: IBD seems to be a rare, but possible
complication of sJIA. Treatment with IL-1 antagonists might be a relevant factor 
for a switch in the clinical phenotype of the underlying inflammatory process.

DOI: 10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3 
PMCID: PMC5348783
PMID: 28288653 


285. Digestion. 2017;95(3):188-193. doi: 10.1159/000455008. Epub 2017 Mar 14.

Gastric Acid Suppression Is Associated with an Increased Risk of Adverse Outcomes
in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Shah R(1), Richardson P, Yu H, Kramer J, Hou JK.

Author information: 
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: The intestinal microbiota may influence inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD) activity. Histamine 2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) and proton pump
inhibitors (PPIs) can alter the intestinal microbiota. The aim of this study was 
to assess the relationship between H2RAs, PPIs, and IBD-related outcomes.
METHODS: We conducted a case-control study of IBD patients using the Veterans
Health Affairs databases. Cases were defined by their first instance of an
IBD-related hospitalization or surgery and the exposure of interest was H2RA or
PPI use 30 days prior to the outcome. Incidence density ratios were calculated
using conditional logistic regression.
RESULTS: In a cohort of 58,459 patients with IBD, we found 4,887 cases and 9,761 
controls with ulcerative colitis (UC) and 4,876 cases and 9,745 controls with
Crohn disease (CD). Filled prescriptions for H2RAs were associated with an
increased risk of IBD-related hospitalization or surgery in CD patients (adjusted
incidence density ratio 1.18; 95% CI 1.03-1.34). A similar association was found 
for PPIs in UC patients (adjusted incidence density ratio 1.11; 95% CI 1.02-1.21)
and CD patients (adjusted incidence density ratio 1.12; 95% CI 1.02-1.22).
CONCLUSIONS: H2RAs and PPIs were associated with a modestly increased risk of
IBD-related hospitalization or surgery.

© 2017 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000455008 
PMID: 28288458 


286. PLoS One. 2017 Mar 13;12(3):e0173655. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0173655.
eCollection 2017.

CD73 is expressed by inflammatory Th17 cells in experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis but does not limit differentiation or pathogenesis.

Hernandez-Mir G(1), McGeachy MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology & Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

CD73 works together with CD39 to convert extracellular ATP to immunoregulatory
adenosine, thus inhibiting inflammation. TGFβ-mediated CD73 expression on
'regulatory' Th17 cells limits their ability to eradicate tumors, similar to the 
immunosuppressive mechanism described for CD73 on Tregs. However, CD73 is also
expressed on Th17 cells thought to be inflammatory in Crohn's disease. CD73 has
previously been reported to contribute to inflammation in the central nervous
system (CNS). In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), we found that
inflammatory cytokine-producing Th17 cells showed increased CD73 expression as
disease progressed. We therefore hypothesized that CD73 could be important for
limiting the expansion or pathogenic function of Th17 cells in autoimmune
inflammation of the CNS. Surprisingly, EAE development was not enhanced or
inhibited by CD73 deficiency; there was correspondingly no difference in
induction of Th17-associated cytokines IL-17, IFNγ or GM-CSF or recruitment of
either inflammatory or regulatory cells to the central nervous system. We
confirmed that CD73 was similarly not required for differentiation of Th17 cells 
in vitro. These data show that while CD73 expression is regulated during EAE,
this enzyme is not absolutely required to either promote or limit Th17 cell
expansion or EAE severity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0173655 
PMCID: PMC5348004
PMID: 28288184 


287. Nutrients. 2017 Mar 10;9(3). pii: E259. doi: 10.3390/nu9030259.

An Examination of Diet for the Maintenance of Remission in Inflammatory Bowel
Disease.

Haskey N(1), Gibson DL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Sciences,
University of British Columbia, Room, ASC 368, 3187 University Way, Okanagan
campus, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada. natasha.haskey@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Biology, The Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Sciences, University of British 
Columbia, Room, ASC 368, 3187 University Way, Okanagan campus, Kelowna, BC V1V
1V7, Canada. deanna.gibson@ubc.ca.

Diet has been speculated to be a factor in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel
disease and may be an important factor in managing disease symptoms. Patients
manipulate their diet in attempt to control symptoms, often leading to the
adoption of inappropriately restrictive diets, which places them at risk for
nutritional complications. Health professionals struggle to provide
evidence-based nutrition guidance to patients due to an overall lack of
uniformity or clarity amongst research studies. Well-designed diet studies are
urgently needed to create an enhanced understanding of the role diet plays in the
management of inflammatory bowel disease. The aim of this review is to summarize 
the current data available on dietary management of inflammatory bowel disease
and to demonstrate that dietary modulation may be an important consideration in
managing disease. By addressing the relevance of diet in inflammatory bowel
disease, health professionals are able to better support patients and collaborate
with dietitians to improve nutrition therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9030259 
PMCID: PMC5372922
PMID: 28287412 


288. Recenti Prog Med. 2017 Feb;108(2):83-89. doi: 10.1701/2636.27099.

[Inflammatory bowel disease and quality of life: psychopathological variants.]

[Article in Italian]

Prisco V(1), Iannaccone T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Psichiatria, Seconda Università di Napoli.

INTRODUCTION: Purpose of the study was to analyze the quality of life and
psychiatric symptomatology in patients suffering from Inflammatory Bowel
Diseases.
METHODS: In this study were enrolled 108 patients: 67 cases (Ulcerative Colitis
in 39 patients, Crohn's Disease in 28 cases) and 41 controls (patients suffering 
from Irritable Bowel Syndrome). Patients were subjected to Self-Report Symptom
Inventory-Revised (SCL-90-R) to analyze general psychiatric symptomatology;
Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) to analyze depressive symptomatology;
Short Form-36 (SF-36) to evaluate the quality of life.
RESULTS: Patients suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Disease have major
limitations in phisical activities; they complain about daily activities; they
consider their general health as the most poor and destined to deteriorate
further in time. Patients suffering from Ulcerative Colitis have greater
impairment if compared with Crohn's disease patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients suffering with inflammatory bowel disease have a significant
impairment in several areas of life quality and a psychiatric symptomatology that
shows emotional - psycological discomfort due to the underlying disease.

DOI: 10.1701/2636.27099 
PMID: 28287202 


289. Ultrasound Int Open. 2017 Feb;3(1):E13-E24. doi: 10.1055/s-0042-123841.

Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Enterography and Dynamic
Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasonography in Crohn's Disease: An Observational Comparison
Study.

Wilkens R(1), Peters DA(2), Nielsen AH(3), Hovgaard VP(3), Glerup H(3), Krogh
K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Medicine and Radiology, Diagnostic Centre, Silkeborg Regional
Hospital, University Research Clinic for Innovative Diagnostic Pathways,
Silkeborg, Denmark; Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus
University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark. (2)Department of Clinical Engineering,
Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark. (3)Divisions of Medicine and
Radiology, Diagnostic Centre, Silkeborg Regional Hospital, University Research
Clinic for Innovative Diagnostic Pathways, Silkeborg, Denmark. (4)Department of
Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark.

Purpose e Cross-sectional imaging methods are important for objective
evaluationof small intestinal inflammationinCrohn'sdisease(CD).The primary aim
was to compare relative parameters of intestinal perfusion between
contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS) and dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic
resonance enterography (DCE-MRE) in CD. Furthermore, we aimed at testing the
repeatability of regions of interest (ROIs) for CEUS. Methods This prospective
study included 25 patients: 12 females (age: 37, range: 19-66) with moderate to
severe CD and a bowel wall thickness>3mm evaluated with DCE-MRE and CEUS. CEUS
bolus injection was performed twice for repeatability and analyzed in VueBox®.
Correlations between modalities were described with Spearman's rho, limits of
agreement(LoA) and intraclass correlation coefficient(ICC). ROIrepeatability for 
CEUS was assessed. Results s The correlation between modalities was good and very
good for bowel wall thickness (ICC=0.71, P<0.001) and length of the inflamed
segment (ICC=0.89, P<0.001). Moderate-weak correlations were found for the
time-intensity curve parameters: peak intensity (r=0.59, P=0.006), maximum
wash-in-rate (r=0.62, P=0.004), and wash-in perfusion index (r=0.47, P=0.036).
Best CEUS repeatability for peak enhancement was a mean difference of 0.73 dB
(95% CI: 0.17 to 1.28, P=0.01) and 95% LoA from -3.8 to 5.3 dB. Good quality of
curve fit improved LoA to -2.3 to 2.8 dB. Conclusion The relative perfusion of
small intestinal CD assessed with DCE-MRE and CEUS shows only a moderate
correlation. Applying strict criteria for ROIs is important and allows for good
CEUS repeatability.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-123841 
PMCID: PMC5340279
PMID: 28286879 


290. ACG Case Rep J. 2017 Feb 15;4:e24. doi: 10.14309/crj.2017.24. eCollection 2017.

Tubulointerstitial Nephritis as the Initial Presentation of Crohn's Disease and
Successful Treatment with Infliximab.

Stanton B(1), Caza T(2), Huang D(3), Beg MB(4).

Author information: 
(1)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY. (2)Department of Pathology,
SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY. (3)Division of Pediatric
Nephrology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY. (4)Division of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, SUNY Upstate Medical
University, Syracuse, NY.

Tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) is not commonly associated in
aminosalicylate-naïve patients with Crohn's disease (CD). Our case describes the 
initial presentation, diagnosis, and management of an adolescent presenting with 
TIN and underlying CD. Our case emphasizes that CD should be considered in the
differential diagnosis of interstitial nephritis as not only a medication-related
effect, but also as an extraintestinal manifestation of CD. We also describe
successful management of undiagnosed recurring and symptomatic CD-related TIN
with infliximab.

DOI: 10.14309/crj.2017.24 
PMCID: PMC5340656
PMID: 28286790 


291. Cureus. 2017 Jan 31;9(1):e1004. doi: 10.7759/cureus.1004.

Fecal Myeloperoxidase as a Biomarker for Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Hansberry DR(1), Shah K(2), Agarwal P(3), Agarwal N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Radiology, Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals. (2)Gastroenterology, Rowan
University School of Osteopathic Medicine. (3)Neurosurgery, Perelman School of
Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. (4)Department of Neurological
Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic condition involving the
inflammation of the colon and small intestine. IBD affects as many as 1.4 million
people in the U.S. alone and costs the health care industry over $1.7 billion
annually. Managing IBD normally requires invasive and often discomforting
diagnostic tests. In an effort to alleviate the painful and costly nature of
traditional diagnosis, there has been increasing research initiative focused on
noninvasive biomarkers. PubMed, provided by the United States National Library of
Medicine (NLM) at the National Institutes of Health, was utilized with the
following search terms: 1) myeloperoxidase (MPO) 2), inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD), and 3) neutrophils. The following terms were used interchangeably with
search terms 1-3: 4) costs, 5) biomarkers, 6) review, and 7) etiology. In the
context of IBD, myeloperoxidase (MPO), a lysosomal protein found in neutrophils, 
may serve as a viable biomarker for assessing disease status. Several studies
demonstrated increased levels of neutrophils in patients with active IBD.
Furthermore, studies have found significantly higher levels of MPO in patients
with active IBD compared to patients without IBD as well as patients with
inactive IBD. MPO is also expressed in higher concentrations in patients with
more severe forms of IBD. When measuring treatment efficacy, MPO levels are
indicative of the quality of response. MPO may serve as an important diagnostic
and prognostic tool in assessing IBD status.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.1004 
PMCID: PMC5332167
PMID: 28286723 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


292. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 7. pii: S1542-3565(17)30260-4. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.029. [Epub ahead of print]

Endoscopic and Histologic Healing in Children With Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
Treated With Thalidomide.

Lazzerini M(1), Villanacci V(2), Pellegrin MC(3), Martelossi S(4), Magazzù G(5), 
Pellegrino S(5), Lucanto MC(5), Barabino A(6), Calvi A(6), Arrigo S(6), Lionetti 
P(7), Fontana M(8), Zuin G(8), Maggiore G(9), Bramuzzo M(3), Maschio M(4),
Salemme M(2), Manenti S(2), Luisa L(2), Decorti G(10), Montico M(4), Ventura
A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo", Trieste,
Italy. Electronic address: marzia.lazzerini@burlo.trieste.it. (2)Department of
Pathology, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy. (3)Institute for Maternal and Child
Health IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo", Trieste, Italy; University of Trieste, Italy.
(4)Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo", Trieste,
Italy. (5)Paediatric Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(6)Paediatric Gastroenterology Unit, Institute Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(7)Department of Sciences for Woman and Child Health, University of Florence,
Meyer Children's Hospital, Florence, Italy. (8)Paediatric Department, Children's 
Hospital "V. Buzzi", Milan, Italy. (9)Paediatric Gastroenterology, University of 
Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (10)University of Trieste, Italy.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Mucosal healing, determined by endoscopic evaluation, is one
of the most important prognostic markers for patients with inflammatory bowel
diseases. Findings from histologic evaluation, however, could complement findings
from endoscopy in assessing mucosal responses to treatment. We analyzed long term
results of children treated with thalidomide to determine the association between
clinical response and histology and endoscopy findings.
METHODS: We collected data from 2 multi-center trials of 70 children with
refractory Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC) (2-18 years old;
ileo-colonic or colonic disease) given thalidomide or placebo (NCT00720538).
Clinical remission and clinical response at 8 weeks were defined as a pediatric
CD activity index scores 10 points or lower and a decrease of at least 50% from
baseline, respectively, for patients with CD, and as a pediatric UC activity
index score below 10 and a decrease of at least 20 points from baseline, for
patients with UC. Patients with a clinical response to 8 weeks' treatment with
thalidomide underwent endoscopic examination with biopsy collection at study
weeks 12 and 52. Severity of inflammation in patients with UC was assessed by
Mayo score and in patients with CD by 4-grade system. Biopsies were assessed for 
signs of active inflammation, erosion or ulceration, and crypt abscesses and
assigned a histologic score.
RESULTS: Clinical remission was observed in 42 patients (60.0%) and clinical
response in 45 patients (64.2%) at week 8. At week 52, 38 patients (54.3%) were
still in clinical remission or still had a clinical response; 29 patients (41.4%)
had mucosal healing, defined as complete healing of erosions or ulcerations, and 
20 patients (27.7%) had histologic healing, defined as complete absence of
markers of inflammation. Of patients with clinical remission or clinical
response, 75.3% also had mucosal healing and 52.6% also had histologic healing.
The probability of achieving mucosal healing decreased significantly with
increasing values of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (adjusted odds ratio, 0.96;
95% CI, 0.93-0.98; P=.006).
CONCLUSION: In a long-term analysis of data from 2 clinical trials of pediatric
patients with CD or UC, 52 weeks' treatment with thalidomide led to clinical
remission in 54.3% of patients with ileo-colonic or colonic disease; of these
patients, 75.3% had mucosal healing and 52.6% also had histologic healing.
Further studies are needed to determine how thalidomide therapy affects long-term
progression of inflammatory bowel diseases.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.029 
PMID: 28286192 


293. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 7. pii: S1542-3565(17)30259-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.028. [Epub ahead of print]

Increased Intestinal Permeability in Relatives of Patients With Crohn's Disease
Is Not Associated With Small Bowel Ulcerations.

Teshima CW(1), Goodman KJ(2), El-Kalla M(2), Turk S(2), El-Matary W(3), Valcheva 
R(2), Danchak R(4), Gordon M(4), Ho P(2), Mullins A(4), Wong D(2), Kao D(2),
Meddings J(5), Huynh H(4), Dieleman LA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and CEGIIR, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada; Division of Gastroenterology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and CEGIIR, University of
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (3)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology,
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada. (4)Department of Pediatrics, University
of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (5)Department of Medicine, University of
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (6)Division of Gastroenterology and CEGIIR,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Electronic address:
l.dieleman@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Many first-degree relatives of patients with Crohn's disease
(CD) have increased intestinal permeability. Video capsule endoscopy (VCE) is the
most sensitive imaging test to identify small bowel mucosal lesions that could
indicate subclinical CD. We aimed to estimate the association of increased
intestinal permeability with small bowel ulcerations detectable by VCE in healthy
first-degree relatives of patients with CD.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of 223 healthy, asymptomatic
first-degree relatives of patients with CD (parents, siblings, and children; 9-45
years old) enrolled at the University of Alberta between 2009 and 2012. Patients 
were given the lactulose and mannitol test to measure small bowel permeability;
we used high-performance liquid chromatography to measure concentrations of
lactulose and mannitol in urine samples (increased permeability defined as a
ratio of lactulose/mannitol 0.025 or greater). Patients with increased
permeability (n = 39) and randomly selected subjects with normal permeability
(n = 59) were then examined by VCE for signs of small bowel inflammation and
subclinical CD. The prevalence of small bowel lesions was compared among groups. 
We performed logistic regression analyses to estimate odds ratios for the
association of small bowel ulcerations with intestinal permeability.
RESULTS: Among 223 first-degree relatives of patients with CD, 30% were found to 
have increased intestinal permeability; VCE examination found 24% of subjects to 
have 3 or more small bowel ulcers. Three or more small bowel ulcers were detected
in 28% of patients with increased intestinal permeability and 20% of patients
with normal intestinal permeability (P = .37). The adjusted odds ratio for the
association of 3 or more small bowel ulcers with increased intestinal
permeability was 1.5 (95% confidence interval, 0.6-3.8; P = .46).
CONCLUSIONS: Thirty percent of healthy, asymptomatic first-degree relatives of
patients with CD have increased intestinal permeability. However, a strong
association of small bowel ulceration seen on VCE with increased intestinal
permeability was not observed.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.02.028 
PMID: 28286191 


294. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 9. pii: S2210-7401(17)30047-5. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2017.01.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Chromosome region maintenance-1 (CRM1) regulates apoptosis of intestinal
epithelial cells via p27kip1 in Crohn's disease.

Yan L(1), Wang L(2), Bai J(3), Miao X(2), Zeng W(1), Hua X(1), Ni R(2), Zhang
D(4), Tang Q(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing
Medical University, Nanjing, China. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Affiliated
Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong, China. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology, The Third Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China. (4)Department of Pathogen Biology, Medical College, Nantong
University; Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory for Inflammation and Molecular Drug
Target, Nantong University, Nantong, China. (5)Department of Gastroenterology,
The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
Electronic address: tqy716219@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of chromosome region maintenance-1 (CRM1) in
Crohn's disease (CD) and its potential pathological mechanisms.
METHODS: The expression and distribution of CRM1 in mucosal biopsies from
patients with active CD and normal controls were detected by immunohistochemistry
(IHC). We established a murine model of acute colitis induced by
2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS). Western blot was performed to
investigate the expression levels of CRM1, apoptotic markers (active caspase-3
and cleaved PARP), p27kip1 and p-p27ser10. IHC was performed to evaluate the
distribution of CRM1, and double immunofluorescence (IF) was performed to
evaluate the co-localization of CRM1 and active capase-3. Cells of the human
intestinal epithelial cell line HT-29 were incubated with tumor necrosis factor-α
(TNF-α) to establish an apoptotic in vitro model. Western blot was performed to
determine the expression levels of CRM1, active caspase-3, cleaved PARP and
p-p27ser10. Cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts were assessed to examine the
translocation of CRM1. The interaction between CRM1 and p27kip1 was assessed by
co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays. Furthermore, we used small interfering RNA
(siRNA) to knock down the protein expression of CRM1 in HT-29 cells and then
measured the expression of active caspase-3, cleaved PARP and p-p27ser10. Flow
cytometry was used to determine the effect of CRM1 on intestinal epithelial cell 
(IEC) apoptosis.
RESULTS: We observed up-regulation of CRM1 accompanied by elevated levels of IEC 
apoptotic markers (active caspase-3 and cleaved PARP) and p-p27ser10 in IECs of
patients with active CD and in TNBS-induced colitis model cells. However, the
expression of p27kip1 was negatively correlated with the expression patterns of
CRM1, p-p27ser10 and apoptotic biochemical markers. Co-localization of CRM1 and
active caspase-3 in IECs of the TNBS group further indicated the possible
involvement of CRM1 in IEC apoptosis. By employing TNF-α-treated HT-29 cells as
an in vitro IEC apoptosis model, we found that the expression levels of CRM1 and 
p-p27ser10 were in accordance with active caspase-3 and cleaved PARP. In
addition, immunoprecipitation confirmed the physical interaction between CRM1 and
p27kip1. siRNA knockdown of CRM1 significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of
p27kip1 and the expression of active caspase-3 and cleaved PARP. In addition,
flow cytometry analysis also showed that silencing CRM1 by siRNA inhibited
TNF-α-induced cellular apoptosis in HT-29 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Up-regulated CRM1 may facilitate IEC apoptosis possibly through
p27kip1 in CD, indicating an important role of CRM1 in the pathophysiology of CD.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2017.01.012 
PMID: 28286054 


295. Neurochirurgie. 2017 Mar;63(1):21-24. doi: 10.1016/j.neuchi.2016.10.007. Epub
2017 Mar 9.

Partial cauda equina syndrome after an uneventful minimally invasive
microdiscectomy in a patient with Crohn's disease.

Raftopoulos C(1), Koenig S(2), Joris V(2), Duprez T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital St-Luc, Avenue Hippocrate, 10,
1200 Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: christian.raftopoulos@uclouvain.be.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital St-Luc, Avenue Hippocrate, 10,
1200 Brussels, Belgium. (3)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital
St-Luc, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.

Cauda equina syndrome is a serious condition resulting from dysfunction of the
lumbosacral nerve roots and characterized by impairment of bladder, bowel, sexual
and lower limb functions. We report the case of a 48-year-old woman who had
Crohn's disease for more than twenty years. The patient was undergoing
immunotherapy with infliximab and developed a partial cauda equina syndrome after
an uneventful minimally invasive microdiscectomy (L5-S1) that completely cured
her sciatica. A postoperative magnetic resonance imaging examination showed root 
clumping but no compressive lesion. We discuss a possible relationship between
the cauda equina syndrome and the patient's active Crohn's disease, treatment and
surgery.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuchi.2016.10.007 
PMID: 28285756 


296. Cell Immunol. 2016 Dec 26. pii: S0008-8749(16)30162-9. doi:
10.1016/j.cellimm.2016.12.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Toll-like receptors as a key regulator of mesenchymal stem cell function: An
up-to-date review.

Shirjang S(1), Mansoori B(2), Solali S(3), Hagh MF(4), Shamsasenjan K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology and Oncology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. (2)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. (3)Hematology and Oncology Research Center,
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. (4)Drug Applied Research
Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. (5)Hematology and
Oncology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
Electronic address: Shamsk@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Understanding the role of toll-like receptors (TLRs) in the immunomodulation
potential, differentiation, migration, and survival of mesenchymal stem cells
(MSCs) is absolutely vital to fully exploiting their MSC-based therapeutic
potential. Furthermore, through recognition of exogenous or endogenous ligands
produced upon injury, TLRs have been linked to allograft rejection and
maintenance of chronic inflammatory diseases, including Crohn's disease,
rheumatoid arthritis. Characterizing the effect of TLRs in biological control of 
MSCs fate and function could improve our knowledge about the MSC-based cell
therapy and immunotherapy. In this paper, we outline the impacts of TLR
activation and mechanisms on MSCs immunomodulatory functions, differentiation,
migration, and survivability. Moreover, we indicate that the expression patterns 
of TLRs in MSCs from different sources.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2016.12.005 
PMID: 28284487 


297. BMC Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 11;17(1):40. doi: 10.1186/s12876-017-0591-z.

The utility of apoptosis inhibitor of macrophages as a possible diagnostic marker
in patients with Crohn's disease.

Ono Y(1), Kanmura S(2), Morinaga Y(1), Oda K(1), Kawabata K(1), Arima S(1),
Sasaki F(1), Nasu Y(1), Tanoue S(1), Hashimoto S(1), Taguchi H(1), Uto H(1,)(3), 
Tsubouchi H(4), Ido A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive and Lifestyle Diseases, Kagoshima University Graduate School of
Medical and Dental Sciences, 8-35-1, Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, 890-8520, Japan.
(2)Digestive and Lifestyle Diseases, Kagoshima University Graduate School of
Medical and Dental Sciences, 8-35-1, Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, 890-8520, Japan.
skanmura@m2.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp. (3)Center for Digestive and Liver Diseases,
Miyazaki Medical Center Hospital, Miyazaki, Japan. (4)Kagoshima City Hospital,
Kagoshima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Apoptosis inhibitor of macrophages (AIM) was initially identified as 
an apoptosis inhibitor that supports the survival of macrophages against various 
apoptosis-inducing stimuli, and AIM produced by macrophages may contribute to the
pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). However, there have been no
reports on the kinetics of AIM in IBD and the impact of AIM on the pathogenesis
of IBD. In this study, we aimed to investigate the diagnostic utility of levels
of AIM and their correlation with the activity of Crohn's disease (CD) and IBD.
METHODS: We used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to examine AIM
serum levels in 16 healthy subjects and 90 patients with inflammatory bowel
diseases, namely 39 with CD and 51 with ulcerative colitis (UC), as well as 17
patients with Behcet's disease (BD) as intestinal disease controls. We compared
serum AIM levels among groups and examined whether there were correlations
between serum AIM levels and disease activity and type. We also performed
immunohistochemical staining of AIM in intestinal tissues of patients with CD.
RESULTS: Serum AIM levels were significantly higher in patients with CD than in
patients with UC, BD, and controls (3.27 ± 2.14, 1.88 ± 1.43, 2.34 ± 1.37, and
2.13 ± 0.64 μg/ml, respectively; P < 0.01). There was no difference in serum AIM 
levels before and after treatment in patients with CD. However, in these patients
the diagnostic rate using AIM was better than that based on anti-Saccharomyces
cerevisiae antibodies. AIM was expressed in macrophages that were positive for
CD14, CD16, or both in the intestinal tissues of patients with CD.
CONCLUSIONS: AIM is a novel biomarker of CD that can distinguish CD from UC or
BD. It is suggested that AIM may contribute to intestinal inflammation by
inhibiting the apoptosis of macrophages.

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-017-0591-z 
PMCID: PMC5346245
PMID: 28284201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Pediatr Radiol. 2017 May;47(5):565-575. doi: 10.1007/s00247-017-3790-4. Epub 2017
Mar 10.

Magnetic resonance enterography has good inter-rater agreement and diagnostic
accuracy for detecting inflammation in pediatric Crohn disease.

Church PC(1,)(2), Greer MC(3), Cytter-Kuint R(3), Doria AS(4,)(3), Griffiths
AM(5,)(6), Turner D(7), Walters TD(5,)(6), Feldman BM(4,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Department of Pediatrics, University of Toronto, 555 University Ave.,
Toronto, ON, Canada, M5G 1X8. peterchurch@gmail.com. (2)Institute of Health
Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
peterchurch@gmail.com. (3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Department of Medical Imaging, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada. (4)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (5)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology &
Nutrition, The Hospital for Sick Children, Department of Pediatrics, University
of Toronto, 555 University Ave., Toronto, ON, Canada, M5G 1X8. (6)SickKids
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON,
Canada. (7)Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. (8)Division of
Rheumatology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Department of Pediatrics,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) is increasingly relied upon for
noninvasive assessment of intestinal inflammation in Crohn disease. However very 
few studies have examined the diagnostic accuracy of individual MRE signs in
children.
OBJECTIVE: We have created an MR-based multi-item measure of intestinal
inflammation in children with Crohn disease - the Pediatric Inflammatory Crohn's 
MRE Index (PICMI). To inform item selection for this instrument, we explored the 
inter-rater agreement and diagnostic accuracy of individual MRE signs of
inflammation in pediatric Crohn disease and compared our findings with the
reference standards of the weighted Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index
(wPCDAI) and C-reactive protein (CRP).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional single-center study, MRE studies
in 48 children with diagnosed Crohn disease (66% male, median age 15.5 years)
were reviewed by two independent radiologists for the presence of 15 MRE signs of
inflammation. Using kappa statistics we explored inter-rater agreement for each
MRE sign across 10 anatomical segments of the gastrointestinal tract. We
correlated MRE signs with the reference standards using correlation coefficients.
Radiologists measured the length of inflamed bowel in each segment of the
gastrointestinal tract. In each segment, MRE signs were scored as either binary
(0-absent, 1-present), or ordinal (0-absent, 1-mild, 2-marked). These segmental
scores were weighted by the length of involved bowel and were summed to produce a
weighted score per patient for each MRE sign. Using a combination of wPCDAI≥12.5 
and CRP≥5 to define active inflammation, we calculated area under the receiver
operating characteristic curve (AUC) for each weighted MRE sign.
RESULTS: Bowel wall enhancement, wall T2 hyperintensity, wall thickening and wall
diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) hyperintensity were most commonly identified.
Inter-rater agreement was best for decreased motility and wall DWI hyperintensity
(kappa≥0.64). Correlation between MRE signs and wPCDAI was higher than with CRP. 
AUC was highest (≥0.75) for ulcers, wall enhancement, wall thickening, wall T2
hyperintensity and wall DWI hyperintensity.
CONCLUSION: Some MRE signs had good inter-rater agreement and AUC for detection
of inflammation in children with Crohn disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-017-3790-4 
PMID: 28283726 


299. Dig Liver Dis. 2017 Apr;49(4):451. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2016.12.032. Epub 2017 Jan 
27.

Colonic metaplasia of the neo-terminal ileum in Crohn's Disease.

Biancone L(1), Albertoni L(2), Ascolani M(3), Mescoli C(2), Rugge M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Medicine, Unit of Gastroenterology, University of Rome
"Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy. Electronic address: biancone@med.uniroma2.it.
(2)Department of Medicine, DIMED, Pathology Unit, University of Padova, Padova,
Italy. (3)Department of Systems Medicine, Unit of Gastroenterology, University of
Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2016.12.032 
PMID: 28283377 


300. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2017 Apr;21(4):381-390. doi:
10.1080/14728222.2017.1296431. Epub 2017 Mar 1.

Genetic risk variants as therapeutic targets for Crohn's disease.

Gabbani T(1), Deiana S(2), Marocchi M(3), Annese V(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Gastroenterology UO , Azienda Unita Sanitaria Locale della Romagna , Forlì ,
Italy. (2)b Division of Gastroenterology , AOU Careggi University Hospital ,
Florence , Italy. (3)c Division of Gastroenterology , AOU Modena University
Hospital , Modena , Italy. (4)d Department of Gastroenterology , Valiant Clinic ,
Dubai , UAE.

INTRODUCTION: The pathogenesis of Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) is
multifactorial, with interactions between genetic and environmental factors.
Despite the existence of genetic factors being largely demonstrated by
epidemiological data and several genetic studies, only a few findings have been
useful in term of disease prediction, disease progression and targeting therapy. 
Areas covered: This review summarizes the results of genome-wide association
studies in Crohn's disease, the role of epigenetics and the recent discovery by
genetic studies of new pathogenetic pathways. Furthermore, it focuses on the
importance of applying genetic data to clinical practice, and more specifically
how to better target therapy and predict potential drug-related toxicity. Expert 
opinion: Some genetic markers identified in Crohn`s disease have allowed
investigators to hypothesize about, and in some cases, prove the usefulness of
new specific therapeutic agents. However, the heterogeneity and complexity of
this disease has so far limited the daily clinical use of genetic information.
Finally, the study of the implications of genetics on therapy, either to predict 
efficacy or avoid toxicity, is considered still to be in its infancy.

DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2017.1296431 
PMID: 28281904 


301. Ter Arkh. 2017;89(2):20-27. doi: 10.17116/terarkh201789220-27.

[Efficacy of adalimumab for Crohn's disease in real clinical practice].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Knyazev OV(1), Kagramanova AV(1), Ruchkina IN(1), Fadeeva NA(1), Lishchinskaya
AA(1), Boldyreva ON(1), Zhulina EY(1), Shcherbakov PL(1), Orlova NV(1), Kirova
MV(1), Parfenov AI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moscow Clinical Research and Practical Center, Moscow Healthcare Department,
Moscow, Russia.

AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of adalimumab (ADA) in patients with
Crohn's disease (CD) treated at the Department of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases,
Moscow Clinical Research and Practical Center, and to determine the predictors of
a therapy response.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: All the patients with CD treated with ADA were followed up 
for at least 6 months or until the drug was discontinued. Therapeutic
effectiveness was evaluated at 4 weeks and 6 months after the initiation of
treatment and at the end of a follow-up. Complete intestinal mucosal healing was 
assessed at 3 and 12 months following treatment initiation. Univariate and
multivariate analyses were used to determine the predictors of treatment
response.
RESULTS: A clinical analysis covered 70 patients (57.1% male); the follow-up
period averaged 112 weeks. Perianal fistulas were at baseline established in 22
(31.4%) patients with CD. 12 (17.4%) patients had been previously treated with
infliximab (INF), 7 of them discontinued the drug for secondary loss of response 
and 5 for adverse reactions. 68 (97.1%) patients responded to an induction course
of ADA. At 4 weeks, 6 months, and at the end of the follow-up, clinical remission
occurred in 66.7, 80.4 and 67.4 % of patients with luminal CD and in 45.4, 36.5, 
and 36.4% of those with perianal CD, respectively. At 3 and 12 months and at the 
end of the follow-up, there was complete healing of the intestinal mucosa in
23.5, and 41.2 and 29.5% of cases, respectively. Six (8.8%) patients responding
to the induction course needed to be optimized with ADA to 40 mg weekly. The time
interval between treatment initiation and dose optimization averaged 30 weeks
(range 12-120 months). There were 15 (21,4%) adverse events that were responsible
for ADA discontinuation in 3 (4,2%) patients.
CONCLUSION: The findings demonstrate the efficacy and safety of ADA used in
clinical practice.

Publisher: Цель исследования. Оценить эффективность и безопасность адалимумаба
(АДА) у пациентов с болезнью Крона (БК), проходивших лечение в отделении
воспалительных заболеваний кишечника Московского клинического
научно-практического центра, и определить предикторы ответа на терапию. Материалы
и методы. Всех пациентов с БК, которым назначили лечение АДА, наблюдали в течение
не менее 6 мес либо до отмены препарата. Эффективность лечения оценивали через 4 
нед и 6 мес после начала лечения, а также в конце наблюдения. Оценку полного
заживления слизистой оболочки кишки проводили через 3 и 12 мес после начала
лечения. Применяли одно- и многофакторный анализы предикторов ответа на лечение. 
Результаты. В клинический анализ включены 70 пациентов (57,1% мужчин), период
наблюдения в среднем составил 112 нед. У 22 (31,4%) больных исходно установлена
свищевая перианальная форма БК. Получали предшествующее лечение инфликсимабом
(ИНФ) 12 (17,4%) пациентов, у 7 из них ИНФ отменен по причине вторичной потери
ответа, у 5 — вследствие развития нежелательных явлений. Ответили на индукционный
курс АДА 68 (97,1%) пациентов. Клиническая ремиссия через 4 нед, 6 мес и в конце 
наблюдения наступила у 66,7, 80,4 и 67,4% при люминальной форме и у 45,4, 36,5 и 
36,4% при перианальной форме БК соответственно. Полное заживление слизистой
оболочки кишки через 3, 12 мес и в конце периода наблюдения достигнуто в 23,5,
41,2 и 29,5% случаев соответственно. Среди пациентов, ответивших на индукционный 
курс, у 6 (8,8%) возникла необходимость в оптимизации дозы АДА до 40 мг/нед.
Период от начала лечения до оптимизации дозы в среднем составил 30 нед (диапазон 
12—120 нед). Число нежелательных явлений составило 15 (21,4%) случаев, что стало 
причиной отмены АДА у 3 (4,2%) больных. Заключение. Полученные результаты
демонстрируют эффективность и безопасность применения АДА в клинической практике.

PMID: 28281511 


302. Ter Arkh. 2017;89(2):15-19. doi: 10.17116/terarkh201789215-19.

[The prevalence of bacterial overgrowth syndrome and its associated factors in
patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (according to the data of the
Novosibirsk registry)].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Kulygina YA(1), Osipenko MF(1), Skalinskaya MI(1), Pal'chunova KD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Novosibirsk State Medical University, Ministry of Health of Russia,
Novosibirsk, Russia.

AIM: To assess the prevalence of bacterial overgrowth syndrome (BOS) and its risk
factors in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The patients from the Novosibirsk IBD registry, who had
undergone a hydrogen breath test (HBT) using a Gastro+ device, were examined.
RESULTS: In 93 IBD patients who had undergone a HBD, the prevalence of BOS was
48% (46.2% for ulcerative colitis and 51.2% for Crohn's disease). There was a
strong correlation between abdominal bloating, abdominal rumbling, and positive
HBT results in both patient groups. During the HBT, the patients with BOS
frequently complained of diarrhea, borborygmi, belching, and anxiety.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that BOS is highly prevalent among patients with
IBD. BOS is associated with clinical symptoms, such as abdominal bloating,
abdominal rumbling, tearfulness, and irritability.

Publisher: Цель исследования. Оценка распространенности и факторов риска развития
синдрома избыточного бактериального роста (СИБР) у пациентов с воспалительными
заболеваниями кишечника (ВЗК). Материалы и методы. Пациенты из регистра ВЗК
Новосибирска, которым проведен водородный дыхательный тест (ВДТ) на аппарате
«Gastro+». Результаты. У 93 пациентов с ВЗК, которым проведен ВДТ,
распространенность СИБР составила 48% (при язвенном колите 46,2%, при болезни
Крона 51,2%). Выявлена сильная корреляция между вздутием, урчанием в животе и
положительными результатами ВДТ в обеих группах больных. Во время проведения ВДТ 
пациенты с СИБР чаще жаловались на диарею, урчание в животе, отрыжку и чувство
беспокойство. Заключение. Полученные результаты свидетельствуют о высокой
распространенности СИБР у пациентов с ВЗК. СИБР ассоциирован с такими
клиническими симптомами, как вздутие, урчание в животе, плаксивость и
раздражительность.

PMID: 28281510 


303. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Mar 9. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4496-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Is There a Link Between H. Pylori and the Epidemiology of Crohn's Disease?

Shah A(1), Talley NJ(2), Walker M(2), Koloski N(1,)(2), Morrison M(3), Burger
D(1), Andrews JM(4), McGuckin M(5), Jones M(6), Holtmann G(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Princess Alexandra Hospital,
Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Health and Behavioural Sciences, Translational
Research Institute, University of Queensland, Ipswich Road, Woolloongabba,
Brisbane, QLD, Australia. (2)Faculty of Health and Medicine, University of
Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia. (3)Microbial Biology and Metagenomics,
Diamantina Institute, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Royal Adelaide Hospital,
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia. (5)Mater Medical Research
Institute, Translational Research Institute, University of Queensland,
Woolloongabba, QLD, Australia. (6)Department of Psychology, Macquarie University,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. (7)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Health and
Behavioural Sciences, Translational Research Institute, University of Queensland,
Ipswich Road, Woolloongabba, Brisbane, QLD, Australia. g.holtmann@uq.edu.au.

INTRODUCTION: Case control studies suggest an inverse association between
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and Crohn's disease (CD). It is possible this
could be accounted for by confounders such as antibiotic therapy. Analyzing the
geographic distribution of H. pylori and the links with the incidence and
prevalence of CD would be an alternative approach to circumvent these
confounders.
METHODS: The literature was searched for studies published between 1990 and 2016 
that reported incidence or prevalence data for CD in random population samples in
developed countries (GDP per capita >20,000 USD/year). Corresponding prevalence
studies for H. pylori in these same regions were then sought matched to the same 
time period (±6 years). The association between the incidence and prevalence of
CD and H. pylori prevalence rates were assessed before and after adjusting for
GDP and life expectancy.
RESULTS: A total of 19 CD prevalence and 22 CD incidence studies from 10 European
countries, Japan, USA, and Australia with date-matched H. pylori prevalence data 
were identified. The mean H. pylori prevalence rate was 43.4% (range 15.5-85%),
and the mean rates for incidence and prevalence for CD were 6.9 and 91.0/100,000 
respectively. The incidence (r = -0.469, p < 0.03) and prevalence (r = -0.527,
p = 0.02) of CD was inversely and significantly associated with prevalence of H. 
pylori infection.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate a significant inverse association between
geographic distribution of H. pylori and CD. Thus, it is highly unlikely that the
findings of previous case control studies were simply due to confounding factors 
such as concomitant antibiotic use in CD patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4496-z 
PMID: 28281167 


304. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 May;62(5):1305-1312. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4511-4. Epub 2017 
Mar 9.

Effectiveness and Safety of CT-P13 (Biosimilar Infliximab) in Patients with
Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Real Life at 6 Months.

Argüelles-Arias F(1), Guerra Veloz MF(2), Perea Amarillo R(2), Vilches-Arenas
A(2), Castro Laria L(2), Maldonado Pérez B(2), Chaaro D(2), Benítez Roldán A(2), 
Merino V(3), Ramírez G(3), Caunedo Álvarez A(2), Romero Gómez M(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)UGC Digestivo Intercentros, Hospitales Universitarios Virgen Macarena-Rocío
(Sevilla), Avda Dr. Fedriani 3, 41007, Seville, Spain. farguelles@telefonica.net.
(2)UGC Digestivo Intercentros, Hospitales Universitarios Virgen Macarena-Rocío
(Sevilla), Avda Dr. Fedriani 3, 41007, Seville, Spain. (3)Unidad de Farmacia,
Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena (Sevilla), Avda Dr. Fedriani 3, 41007,
Seville, Spain. (4)Dirección Gerencia, Hospital Universitario Virgen Rocío
(Sevilla), Avda Manuel Siurot, s/n, 41013, Seville, Spain.

BACKGROUND: CT-P13 is a biosimilar of Remicade(®), an agent approved in some
countries for use in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Controlled clinical trials
have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of CT-P13 in rheumatic diseases, but
not in IBD.
AIMS: To assess the effectiveness and safety of CT-P13 in IBD patients in real
clinical practice.
METHODS: This is a prospective observational study in patients with moderate to
severe Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis treated with CT-P13. The study was
performed in one single center. Patients included were naive or switched to
anti-TNF treatment from the reference infliximab (Remicade(®)) to CT-P13.
Efficacy and safety were assessed in naive and switched patients who were in
remission at the time of the switch at months 3 and 6 of therapy.
RESULTS: 87.5 and 83.9% of switched CD patients who were in remission at the time
of the switch continued in remission, and 66.7 and 50% of naive CD patients
reached remission, at months 3 and 6. In UC switched cases, 92 and 91.3% of
patients in remission at the time of the switch continued in remission, at 3 and 
6 months. In naive UC patients, the remission rates were 44.4 and 66.7%, at
months 3 and 6. Adverse events occurred in 7.5% of patients during 6 months of
study.
CONCLUSIONS: CT-P13 was efficacious and well tolerated in patients with CD or UC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4511-4 
PMID: 28281165 


305. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2017 Feb;8(1):173-179. doi: 10.21037/jgo.2017.01.13.

Inflammatory bowel diseases activity in patients undergoing pelvic radiation
therapy.

Annede P(1), Seisen T(1), Klotz C(2), Mazeron R(3), Maroun P(3), Petit C(1),
Deutsch E(4), Bossi A(1), Haie-Meder C(1), Chargari C(5), Blanchard P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Brachytherapy Unit, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France;; Department of
Radiotherapy Department, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. (2)Department of
Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. (3)Brachytherapy Unit,
Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France;; Department of Radiotherapy Department,
Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France;; INSERM1030, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus,
Villejuif, France. (4)Department of Radiotherapy Department, Gustave Roussy,
Villejuif, France;; INSERM1030, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif, France;;
Department of Molecular Radiotherapy, University Paris-Sud, SIRIC SOCRATES,
Faculté de Médecine, Le Kremlin-Bicetre, France. (5)Brachytherapy Unit, Gustave
Roussy, Villejuif, France;; Department of Radiotherapy Department, Gustave
Roussy, Villejuif, France;; INSERM1030, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif, 
France;; NRBC Department, Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées,
Bretigny-sur-Orge, France.

BACKGROUND: Few studies with contradictory results have been published on the
safety of pelvic radiation therapy (RT) in patients with inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD).
METHODS: From 1989 to 2015, a single center retrospective analysis was performed 
including all IBD patients who received pelvic external beam radiation therapy
(EBRT) or brachytherapy (BT) for a pelvic malignancy. Treatment characteristics, 
IBD activity and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity were examined.
RESULTS: Overall, 28 patients with Crohn's disease (CD) (n=13) or ulcerative
colitis (n=15) were included in the present study. Median follow-up time after
irradiation was 5.9 years. Regarding IBD activity, only one and two patients
experienced a severe episode within and after 6 months of follow-up,
respectively. Grade 3/4 acute GI toxicity occurred in 3 (11%) patients, whereas
one (3.6%) patient experienced late grade 3/4 GI toxicity. Only patients with
rectal IBD location (P=0.016) or low body mass index (BMI) (P=0.012) experienced 
more severe IBD activity within or after 6 months following RT, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We report an acceptable tolerance of RT in IBD patients with pelvic 
malignancies. Specifically, a low risk of uncontrolled flare-up was observed.

DOI: 10.21037/jgo.2017.01.13 
PMCID: PMC5334037
PMID: 28280621 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.


306. Autoimmun Rev. 2017 May;16(5):495-503. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2017.03.007. Epub
2017 Mar 7.

Modulation of sphingosine-1-phosphate in inflammatory bowel disease.

Peyrin-Biroulet L(1), Christopher R(2), Behan D(2), Lassen C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Inserm U954, Nancy University Hospital,
Lorraine University, 54500 Vandoeuvre, France. Electronic address:
peyrinbiroulet@gmail.com. (2)Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 6154 Nancy Ridge Drive,
San Diego, CA 92121, USA. (3)Arena Pharmaceuticals GmbH, Untere Brühlstrasse 4,
CH-4800 Zofingen, Switzerland.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including ulcerative colitis and Crohn's
disease, involve an inappropriate immune reaction in the digestive tract, causing
a variety of disabling symptoms. The advent of monoclonal antibodies (anti-tumor 
necrosis factor, anti-integrin, anti-interleukin -23) has revolutionized IBD
management. Nevertheless, these agents, with potential for immunogenicity, are
associated with high rates of response loss and disease relapse over time. They
are also associated with high production costs. Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a 
membrane-derived lysophospholipid signaling molecule, is implicated in a vast
array of physiological and pathophysiological processes, primarily via
extracellular activation of S1P1-S1P5 receptors. S1P1, S1P4 and S1P5 are involved
in regulation of the immune system, while S1P2 and S1P3 may be associated with
cardiovascular, pulmonary, and theoretical cancer-related risks. Targeting S1P
receptors for inflammatory conditions has been successful in clinical trials
leading to approval of the non-selective S1P modulator, fingolimod, for relapsing
forms of multiple sclerosis. However, the association of this non-selective S1P
modulator with serious adverse events provides the rationale for developing more 
selective S1P receptor modulators. Until recently, three S1P modulators with
differing selectivity for S1P receptors were in clinical development for IBD:
ozanimod (RPC1063), etrasimod (APD334) and amiselimod (MT-1303). The development 
of amiselimod has been stopped as Biogen are currently focusing on other drugs in
its portfolio. Following encouraging results from the Phase 2 TOUCHSTONE trial, a
Phase 3 trial of the S1P modulator ozanimod in patients with moderate-to-severe
ulcerative colitis is ongoing. Etrasimod is also being tested in a phase 2 trial 
in ulcerative colitis. These pipeline medications can be administered orally and 
may avoid the formation of anti-drug antibodies that can lead to treatment
failure with injectable biologic therapies for IBD. Data from ongoing clinical
trials will establish the relationship between the selectivity of S1P modulators 
and their safety and efficacy in IBD, as well as their potential place in the
clinical armamentarium for IBD.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2017.03.007 
PMID: 28279838 


307. Arch Pediatr. 2017 Apr;24(4):391-398. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2017.01.003. Epub
2017 Mar 6.

[When and how should small-bowel capsule endoscopy be used in children?]

[Article in French]

Viala J(1), Michaud L(2), Bellaiche M(3), Lachaux A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Service des maladies digestives et respiratoires pédiatriques, hôpital
Robert-Debré, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 48, boulevard Sérurier,
75019 Paris, France; Inserm UMR1149, université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris
Cité, 24, rue Henri-Huchard, 75018 Paris, France. Electronic address:
jerome.viala@aphp.fr. (2)Unité de gastro-entérologie, hépatologie et nutrition,
pôle enfant, centre de référence des affections congénitales et malformatives de 
l'œsophage (CRACMO), hôpital Jeanne-de-Flandre, faculté de médecine, université
Lille 2, 59000 Lille, France. (3)Service des maladies digestives et respiratoires
pédiatriques, hôpital Robert-Debré, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 48,
boulevard Sérurier, 75019 Paris, France. (4)Service de gastro-entérologie
hépatologie et nutrition pédiatrique, hospices civils de Lyon, HFME du CHU de
Lyon, université Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, 69500 Bron, France.

Small-bowel capsule endoscopy (CE) has recently been used in children. During the
past few years, an intense research activity has defined the advantages and
limitations of CE. Its uses have been established in several small-bowel
pathologies such as obvious or obscure digestive bleeding, Crohn disease, and
hereditary polyposis. Although the absence of biopsy reduces the specificity of
CE findings, small-bowel exploration using CE achieves better accuracy in
detecting lesions than most radiological examinations. In children, swallowing
problems and the risk of retention due to stenosis are the main concerns when
using CE: these problems can be solved using endoscopic delivery of the capsule
and luminal diameter calibration, respectively. This review focuses on the
evidence making CE indispensable to small-bowel exploration.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2017.01.003 
PMID: 28279616 


308. Cell Host Microbe. 2017 Mar 8;21(3):301-304. doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2017.02.012.

A Microbiome Foundation for the Study of Crohn's Disease.

Gevers D(1), Kugathasan S(2), Knights D(3), Kostic AD(4), Knight R(5), Xavier
RJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Janssen Human Microbiome Institute at Janssen Research and Development LLC,
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA. Electronic address: dgevers3@its.jnj.com. (2)Division
of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of Pediatrics, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. (3)Department of Computer Science and
Engineering, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55108, USA; BioTechnology
Institute, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN 55108, USA. (4)Research
Division, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA; Department of
Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(5)BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309, USA;
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO
80309, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Boulder, CO 80309, USA. (6)Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA; Gastrointestinal Unit and
Center for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease; Center for Computational and 
Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Our 2014 study published in Cell Host & Microbe, "The Treatment-Naive Microbiome 
in New-Onset Crohn's Disease," was designed to improve our understanding of the
microbiome's role in Crohn's disease by studying a unique, well-suited cohort and
sample set. This commentary provides a hindsight perspective of this original
study as well as future outlook.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chom.2017.02.012 
PMID: 28279336 


309. Med Princ Pract. 2017 Mar 8. doi: 10.1159/000468988. [Epub ahead of print]

Antioxidant Supplements and Gastrointestinal Diseases: A Critical Appraisal.

Khan I, Samson SE, Grover AK.

The gastrointestinal tract digests and absorbs dietary nutrients; protects the
body against physical and chemical damage from contents in its lumen; provides
immunity against external antigens and keeps an optimum environment for the gut
microbiota. These functions cannot be performed normally in several diseases of
which the following are discussed here: irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory
bowel disease which includes Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Because
these diseases are associated with oxidative stress, a host of antioxidant
supplements are used for maintenance and recovery of the gut functions. However, 
the benefits of these supplements are not established. The available 80 human
trials were rated for levels of confidence and for benefits of the antioxidant
supplements. For Crohn's disease, the supplements for which clear benefits
occurred in at least two studies were: allopurinol, Boswellia serrata
(frankincense or shallaki), Artemesia species (wormwood), Tripterygium wilfordii 
(Léi gōng téng) and omega-3-fatty acids. Similar beneficial supplements for
ulcerative colitis were: allopurinol, Matricaria chamomilia (chamomile), Curcuma 
longa (curcumin in turmeric) and omega-3-fatty acids. There was also a clear
benefit for ulcerative colitis in two studies where a multiherbal Chinese
medicine preparation and an Ayurvedic medicine preparation were used. For
irritable bowel syndrome, there was only a marginal benefit of some of the
antioxidant supplements. Thus, some antioxidant supplements may be beneficial at 
certain stages of specific diseases. This is consistent with the current concept 
that antioxidants act by inhibiting oxidative stress pathways in a tissue and
environment specific manner and not by simply acting as scavengers.

DOI: 10.1159/000468988 
PMID: 28278495 


310. Curr Med Res Opin. 2017 Apr 3:1-6. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1300143. [Epub
ahead of print]

Increased subsequent risk of inflammatory bowel disease association in patients
with chronic pancreatitis: a nationwide population-based cohort study.

Chen YL(1,)(2), Hsu CW(3,)(4), Cheng CC(5), Yiang GT(1,)(2), Lin CS(5), Lin
CL(6,)(7), Sung FC(8,)(9), Liang JA(10,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Emergency Medicine , Taipei Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi
Medical Foundation , Taipei , Taiwan. (2)e Department of Emergency Medicine,
School of Medicine , Tzu Chi University , Taipei , Taiwan. (3)b Department of
Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, College of Medicine , Taipei Medical
University , Taipei , Taiwan. (4)c Department of Emergency and Critical Medicine 
, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University , Taipei , Taiwan. (5)d Division
of Cardiology, Department of Medicine , Tri-Service General Hospital, National
Defense Medical Center , Taipei , Taiwan. (6)f Management Office for Health Data,
China Medical University Hospital , Taichung , Taiwan. (7)g College of Medicine ,
China Medical University , Taichung , Taiwan. (8)h Department of Health Services 
Administration , China Medical University , Taichung , Taiwan. (9)i Faculty of
Public Health , Mahidol University , Bangkok , Thailand. (10)j Graduate Institute
of Clinical Medical Science and School of Medicine, College of Medicine , China
Medical University , Taichung , Taiwan. (11)k Department of Radiation Oncology , 
China Medical University Hospital , Taichung , Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between chronic pancreatitis (CP) and
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in a large population-based cohort study.
METHODS: Data was obtained from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research
Database. The cohort study comprised 17,796 patients newly diagnosed with CP
between 2000 and 2010 and 71,164 matched controls. A Cox proportional hazards
model was used for evaluating the risk of IBD in the CP and comparison cohorts.
RESULTS: When examined with a mean follow-up period of 4.87 and 6.04 years for
the CP and comparison cohorts, respectively, the overall incidence of IBD was
10.3 times higher in the CP cohort than in the comparison cohort (5.75 vs. 0.56
per 10,000 person-years). Compared with the comparison cohort, the CP cohort
exhibited a higher risk of IBD, irrespective of age, sex, and presence or absence
of comorbidities. Moreover, the CP cohort was associated with a significantly
higher risk of Crohn's disease (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] = 12.9, 95%
confidence interval [CI] = 5.15-32.5) and ulcerative colitis (aHR = 2.80, 95%
CI = 1.00-7.86).
CONCLUSIONS: This nationwide population-based cohort study revealed a
significantly higher risk of IBD in patients with CP compared with control group.
Clinicians should notice this association to avoid delayed diagnosis of IBD in
patients with CP.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2017.1300143 
PMID: 28277863 


311. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Jun - Jul;52(6-7):698-703. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1298153. Epub 2017 Mar 5.

Incidence and predictive factors for positive (75)SeHCAT test: improving the
diagnosis of bile acid diarrhoea.

Murray IA(1), Murray LK(1), Woolson KL(1), Sherfi H(1), Dixon I(2), Palmer J(3), 
Sulkin T(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Gastroenterology , Royal Cornwall Hospital , Truro , Cornwall 
, UK. (2)b Department of Nuclear Medicine , Royal Cornwall Hospital , Truro ,
Cornwall , UK. (3)c Department of Research and Development , Royal Cornwall
Hospital , Truro , Cornwall , UK.

AIMS: To determine the value of (75)SeHCAT retention in determining bile acid
diarrhoea (BAD), treatment response and predictors of a positive result.
METHODS: Retrospective casenote review of consecutive patients undergoing
(75)SeHCAT from 2008 to 2014, including gender, age, history, clinical, and
laboratory parameters. This included diseases associated with Type 1 BAD (ileal
resection, Crohn's disease) and Type 3 BAD. Chi-squared test and logistic
regression determined factors predictive of BAD. Subjective response to treatment
with bile acid sequestrants (BAS) was analysed with respect to the (75)SeHCAT
result.
RESULTS: Of 387 patients, 154 (39.7%) were male and average age was 50 years.
Ninety-five patients (24.5%) were investigated for Type 1 BAD, 86 (22.2%) for
Type 3, and 206 patients (53.2%) for Type 2 or idiopathic BAD. There was a large 
increase in the number performed with time but no difference in percentage
positive tests. One hundred and seventy-nine patients (46.2%) had BAD. Positive
result was commonest in possible Type 1 and they had most severe BAD. Ninety-nine
patients had severe BAD (<5% (75)SeHCAT retention), 47 moderate BAD (5% to <10%
retention), and 33 mild BAD (10% to <15% retention). Predictors of a positive
(75)SeHCAT were right hemicolectomy (OR 4.88), cholecystectomy (OR 2.44), and
Crohn's (OR 1.86). A positive (75)SeHCAT predicted a good or partial response to 
BAS of 66.7% (mild), 78.6% (moderate), or 75.9% (severe BAD).
CONCLUSION: (75)SeHCAT test use increased in 2008-2014, with high positive
results throughout. Ileal resection, Crohn's, and cholecystectomy independently
predict BAD. (75)SeHCAT predicted response to BAS.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1298153 
PMID: 28276822 


312. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr;11(4):329-337. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1292851. Epub 2017 Feb 16.

Cannabinoids for treating inflammatory bowel diseases: where are we and where do 
we go?

Hasenoehrl C(1), Storr M(2,)(3), Schicho R(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology , Medical University of 
Graz , Graz , Austria. (2)b Department of Medicine , Ludwig-Maximilians
University , Munich , Germany. (3)c Zentrum für Endoskopie , Starnberg , Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Fifty years after the discovery of Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) 
as the psychoactive component of Cannabis, we are assessing the possibility of
translating this herb into clinical treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases
(IBDs). Here, a discussion on the problems associated with a potential treatment 
is given. From first surveys and small clinical studies in patients with IBD we
have learned that Cannabis is frequently used to alleviate diarrhea, abdominal
pain, and loss of appetite. Single ingredients from Cannabis, such as THC and
cannabidiol, commonly described as cannabinoids, are responsible for these
effects. Synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists are also termed cannabinoids,
some of which, like dronabinol and nabilone, are already available with a
narcotic prescription. Areas covered: Recent data on the effects of
Cannabis/cannabinoids in experimental models of IBD and in clinical trials with
IBD patients have been reviewed using a PubMed database search. A short
background on the endocannabinoid system is also provided. Expert commentary:
Cannabinoids could be helpful for certain symptoms of IBD, but there is still a
lack of clinical studies to prove efficacy, tolerability and safety of
cannabinoid-based medication for IBD patients, leaving medical professionals
without evidence and guidelines.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1292851 
PMCID: PMC5388177 [Available on 2018-04-01]
PMID: 28276820 


313. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;11(5):473-486. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1294062. Epub 2017 Feb 20.

Is there a role for thioguanine therapy in IBD in 2017 and beyond?

Taylor KM(1), Ward MG(1), Blaker PA(2), Sparrow MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Gastroenterology , Alfred Hospital and Monash University ,
Melbourne , Australia. (2)b Department of Gastroenterology , The Tunbridge Wells 
Hospital , Tunbridge Wells , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Conventional thiopurines are effective for the maintenance of
remission of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, however, up to half of
patients are intolerant or unresponsive to these medications. Thioguanine is an
alternative thiopurine that has shown efficacy in inflammatory bowel disease, and
is particularly useful to circumvent certain side effects associated with
conventional thiopurines, for example, pancreatitis. Its association with nodular
regenerative hyperplasia of the liver has hindered its widespread use. Areas
covered: We aim to outline the rational use of thioguanine, including safety
monitoring, with particular regard to hepatotoxicity. A literature search was
performed: PubMed was searched for full papers and abstracts published in English
since January 2000 using the following terms, alone and in combination:
'azathioprine', 'thiopurine', 'Crohn's disease', 'inflammatory bowel disease',
'nodular regenerative hyperplasia', 'mercaptopurine', 'thioguanine', 'ulcerative 
colitis'. Further relevant papers were identified from the reference lists of
selected papers. Expert commentary: Despite optimisation strategies such as
metabolite measurements and the use of allopurinol, a significant proportion of
patients will remain intolerant to thiopurines, especially those with allergic
reactions, including pancreatitis. For this subgroup of patients we suggest that 
low dose thioguanine is an alternative to other therapies that are either
parenteral or expensive.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1294062 
PMID: 28276819 


314. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Apr;11(4):317-328. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1292128. Epub 2017 Feb 22.

Fecal biomarkers in inflammatory bowel disease: how, when and why?

Ministro P(1), Martins D(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Gastroenterology Department , Tondela - Viseu Hospital Center , Viseu ,
Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Over the last thirty years knowledge on fecal biomarkers (FM) has
substantially increased. Nowadays these non-invasive inflammation markers are
used in the daily management of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The interest in
investigating FM was motivated by the need of a simple, quick, disposable and
less invasive marker of disease activity, which might remove the need for
endoscopy when following up with patients. Areas covered: Current literature was 
reviewed for articles regarding the role of FM in IBD diagnosis, activity, flare 
prediction, medication and surgical treatment response as well as how FM may
differ in adult and paediatric IBD patient populations. Expert commentary:
Although FM is relevant in IBD patient follow-up, there isn't enough data
regarding FM reference values for different ages, different disease subtypes,
disease localization/extension or response to therapy. Serial measurements of FM 
for each patient may be useful in accessing relapse in most patients. FM
presented more consistent results when used as a predictive tool of relapse after
ileocecal surgery in Crohn's disease. Ongoing research will clarify FM role in
decision-making IBD daily practice.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1292128 
PMID: 28276813 


315. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;11(5):461-471. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1296355. Epub 2017 Mar 1.

Management of rectovaginal fistulas and patient outcome.

Abu Gazala M(1), Wexner SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Colorectal Surgery , Cleveland Clinic Florida , Weston , FL , 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Rectovaginal fistulas are a relatively rare, but debilitating
condition which pose a significant treatment challenge. Areas covered: In this
manuscript we discuss the etiology, classification as well as the manifestations 
and evaluation of rectovaginal fistulas. We summarize the different surgical
techniques and evaluate their success rates and perioperative considerations
according to cited sources. Expert commentary: A deep understanding of the
disease, treatment options, and familiarity with the different surgical treatment
options available is mandatory for choosing the correct treatment. When the
surgical treatment is tailored to the specific fistula and patient, many patients
can eventually have successful resolution. This review will address the
management and patient outcomes after treatment for rectovaginal fistulas.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1296355 
PMID: 28276809 


316. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;11(5):393-396. doi:
10.1080/17474124.2017.1300529. Epub 2017 Mar 9.

Resolution of Crohn's (Johne's) disease with antibiotics: what are the next
steps?

Davis WC(1), Kuenstner JT(2), Singh SV(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Microbiology and Pathology , Washington State University ,
Pullman , WA , USA. (2)b Clinical Laboratories and Clinical Pathology , Temple
University Hospital , Philadelphia , PA , USA. (3)c Microbiology Laboratory,
Animal Health Division , Central Institute for Research on Goats , Mathura ,
India.

DOI: 10.1080/17474124.2017.1300529 
PMID: 28276276 


317. J Gastroenterol. 2017 May;52(5):535-554. doi: 10.1007/s00535-017-1324-3. Epub
2017 Mar 8.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: loss of response and requirement of
anti-TNFα dose intensification in Crohn's disease.

Qiu Y(1), Chen BL(1), Mao R(1), Zhang SH(1), He Y(1), Zeng ZR(1), Ben-Horin
S(1,)(2), Chen MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen
University, 58 Zhongshan II Road, Guangzhou, 510080, People's Republic of China. 
(2)IBD Service, Department of Gastroenterology, Sheba Medical Center and Sackler 
School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, 52621, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen
University, 58 Zhongshan II Road, Guangzhou, 510080, People's Republic of China. 
chenminhu@vip.163.com.

BACKGROUND: To review the frequency with which anti-TNF-α loses its effect and
dose "intensification" is required for Crohn's disease (CD) treatment.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for eligible studies. Raw data from
studies meeting inclusion criteria were pooled for effect estimates. Subgroup
analyses were performed for exploration of heterogeneity regarding all outcomes.
RESULTS: Eighty-six eligible studies were included. Estimates of loss of response
(LOR) incidence ranged from 8 to 71%. The random effects pooled incidence of LOR 
with a median follow-up of 1-year was 33% (95% CI 29-38, 55 studies, n = 6135).
The effect estimate based on data from patients with infliximab was 33% (95% CI
27-40), 30% (95% CI 22-39) for adalimumab, and 41% (95% CI 30-53) for
certolizumabpegol. Overall, the mean percentage of patients' LOR to anti-TNFs was
38.5%. The annual risk for LOR was 20.9% per patient-year. The random-effects
pooled rate of need for dose intensification with a median follow-up of 1 year
was 34% (95% CI 28-41, 38 studies, n = 10,690). The effect estimate for
infliximab was 38% (95% CI 28-50), 36% (95% CI 30-43) for adalimumab, and 2% (95%
CI 2-3) for certolizumab-pegol. The mean percentage of patients who needed an
anti-TNF dose escalation was 23% with an annual risk of 18.5% per patient-year.
There was no evidence of publication bias for incidence of LOR but not for the
dose intensification (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, around one-third of CD patients experience a LOR and
required dose intensification in primary anti-TNF-α responders.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-017-1324-3 
PMID: 28275925 


318. North Clin Istanb. 2017 Jan 23;3(3):183-186. doi: 10.14744/nci.2016.35582.
eCollection 2016.

Crohn's disease in the elderly: Clinical presentation and manifestations from a
tertiary referral center in Turkey.

Saygili F(1), Saygili SM(2), Tenlik I(1), Yuksel M(1), Kilic ZM(1), Ozin YO(1),
Kayacetin E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Turkiye Yuksek Ihtisas Training and Research
Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. (2)Department of Reanimation and Intensive Care, Ankara
University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: There is no precise consensus at present on age to define elderly
patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but recently, age of more than 60
years has been widely accepted. Characteristics of IBD in the elderly are
somewhat different from what is seen in younger patients. The elderly have milder
disease activity, and therapeutic options are fewer because of their age and
features such as comorbidities, drug interactions, and loss of organ function.
There are few reports on Crohn's disease in the elderly. Herein, first report on 
this topic with respect to population of this country is presented.
METHODS: Characteristics of 95 patients with Crohn's disease, who were over age
60 from 3125 patients with IBD treated in our clinic between 1996 and 2015 were
analyzed. Research was performed using patient files, and outpatient clinic
visits, when possible.
RESULTS: Median age of the group was 66 years, and male:female ratio was 1.6. Of 
the total, 48.4% of the patients had colonic disease, 37.9% had ileocolonic
disease, and 13.7% had small bowel disease. Data indicated that 23.1% of patients
had undergone surgical procedures, which were primarily right hemicolectomy and
ileotransversostomy. Disease was most often managed with mesalazine or
azathioprine. It was also determined that 12.6% patients had 2 or more
comorbidities, and findings indicated coronary heart disease and hypertension
were most prevalent.
CONCLUSION: Analysis revealed similar features in characteristics of disease
compared with recent knowledge reported in the literature. This is the first
report from our country to describe Crohn's disease in the elderly population,
and the number of patients is sufficient to provide general information about
this group.

DOI: 10.14744/nci.2016.35582 
PMCID: PMC5336622
PMID: 28275749 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


319. New Microbes New Infect. 2016 Nov 28;17:25-26. doi: 10.1016/j.nmni.2016.11.022.
eCollection 2017.

'Ileibacterium massiliense' gen. nov., sp. nov., a new bacterial species isolated
from human ileum of a patient with Crohn disease.

Mailhe M(1), Ricaboni D(2), Vitton V(3), Lagier JC(1), Fournier PE(1), Raoult
D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Aix-Marseille Université, URMITE, UM63, CNRS7278, IRD198, Inserm 1095,
Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire Méditerranée-Infection, Faculté de médecine,
Marseille, France. (2)Aix-Marseille Université, URMITE, UM63, CNRS7278, IRD198,
Inserm 1095, Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire Méditerranée-Infection, Faculté de 
médecine, Marseille, France; Département des sciences cliniques et biomédicales, 
Luigi Sacco, Division des Maladies Infectieuses III, Université de Milan, Milan, 
Italy. (3)Service de Gastroentérologie, Hopital Nord, Assistance
Publique-Hopitaux de Marseille, Marseille, France.

We propose here the main characteristics of 'Ileibacterium massiliense' strain
Marseille-P3115, which was isolated from the ileum liquid sample of a patient
with Crohn disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmni.2016.11.022 
PMCID: PMC5328724
PMID: 28275435 


320. Electrolyte Blood Press. 2016 Dec;14(2):27-30. doi: 10.5049/EBP.2016.14.2.27.
Epub 2016 Dec 31.

Severe Hypernatremia Caused by Acute Exogenous Salt Intake Combined with Primary 
Hypothyroidism.

Jung WJ(1), Park SM(1), Park JM(1), Rhee H(2), Kim IY(1), Lee DW(1), Lee SB(1),
Seong EY(2), Kwak IS(2), Song SH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Pusan National University School of Medicine,
Busan, Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Pusan National University
School of Medicine, Busan, Korea.; Biomedical Research Institute, Pusan National 
University Hospital, Busan, Korea.

This report describes a case of severe hypernatremia with a serum sodium
concentration of 188.1mmol/L caused by exogenous salt intake. A 26-year-old man
diagnosed with Crohn's disease 5 years previously visited our clinic due to
generalized edema and personality changes, with aggressive behavior. He had
compulsively consumed salts, ingesting approximately 154 g of salt over the last 
4 days. Despite careful fluid management that included not only hypotonic fluid
therapy for 8 hours but also hypertonic saline administration, his serum sodium
level decreased sharply at 40.6 mmol/L; however, it returned to normal within
72-hour of treatment without any neurological deficits. Primary hypothyroidism
was also diagnosed. He was discharged after 9 days from admission, with a stable 
serum sodium level. We have described the possibility of successful treatment in 
a patient with hypernatremia caused by acute salt intoxication without sustained 
hypotonic fluid therapy.

DOI: 10.5049/EBP.2016.14.2.27 
PMCID: PMC5337430
PMID: 28275385 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosure: This manuscript 
has not published previously, and will not be submitted for publication
elsewhere.


321. Sci Transl Med. 2017 Mar 8;9(380). pii: eaaf9044. doi:
10.1126/scitranslmed.aaf9044.

A member of the gut mycobiota modulates host purine metabolism exacerbating
colitis in mice.

Chiaro TR(1), Soto R(1), Zac Stephens W(1), Kubinak JL(1), Petersen C(1),
Gogokhia L(1), Bell R(1), Delgado JC(1,)(2), Cox J(3,)(4), Voth W(1), Brown J(1),
Stillman DJ(1), O'Connell RM(1), Tebo AE(1,)(2), Round JL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Department of Pathology, University
of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA. (2)ARUP Laboratories, 
500 Chipeta Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA. (3)Metabolomics Core, University 
of Utah Health Sciences Center, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA. (4)Department of
Biochemistry, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84112,
USA. (5)Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Department of Pathology,
University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA.
june.round@path.utah.edu.

The commensal microbiota has an important impact on host health, which is only
beginning to be elucidated. Despite the presence of fungal, archaeal, and viral
members, most studies have focused solely on the bacterial microbiota. Antibodies
against the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are found in some patients with
Crohn's disease (CD), suggesting that the mycobiota may contribute to disease
severity. We report that S. cerevisiae exacerbated intestinal disease in a mouse 
model of colitis and increased gut barrier permeability. Transcriptome analysis
of colon tissue from germ-free mice inoculated with S. cerevisiae or another
fungus, Rhodotorula aurantiaca, revealed that S. cerevisiae colonization affected
the intestinal barrier and host metabolism. A fecal metabolomics screen of
germ-free animals demonstrated that S. cerevisiae colonization enhanced host
purine metabolism, leading to an increase in uric acid production. Treatment with
uric acid alone worsened disease and increased gut permeability. Allopurinol, a
clinical drug used to reduce uric acid, ameliorated colitis induced by S.
cerevisiae in mice. In addition, we found a positive correlation between elevated
uric acid and anti-yeast antibodies in human sera. Thus, yeast in the gut may be 
able to potentiate metabolite production that negatively affects the course of
inflammatory bowel disease.

Copyright © 2017, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aaf9044 
PMID: 28275154 


322. Gastroenterology. 2017 Mar 5. pii: S0016-5085(17)30236-6. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2017.02.038. [Epub ahead of print]

Patient Age, Sex, and Inflammatory Bowel Disease Phenotype Associate With Course 
of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis.

Weismüller TJ, Trivedi PJ, Bergquist A, Imam M, Lenzen H, Ponsioen CY, Holm K,
Gotthardt D, Färkkilä MA, Marschall HU, Thorburn D, Weersma RK, Fevery J, Mueller
T, Chaouillères O, Schulze K, Lazaridis KN, Almer S, Pereira SP, Levy C, Mason A,
Naess S, Bowlus CL, Floreani A, Halilbasic E, Yimam KK, Milkiewicz P, Beuers U,
Huynh DK, Pares A, Manser CN, Dalekos GN, Eksteen B, Invernizzi P, Berg CP,
Kirchner GI, Sarrazin C, Zimmer V, Fabris L, Braun F, Marzioni M, Juran BD, Said 
K, Rupp C, Jokelainen K, Benito de Valle M, Saffioti F, Cheung A, Trauner M,
Schramm C, Chapman RW, Karlsen TH, Schrumpf E, Strassburg CP, Manns MP, Lindor
KD, Hirschfield GM, Hansen BE, Boberg KM; International PSC Study Group.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an orphan
hepatobiliary disorder associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We aimed
to estimate the risk of disease progression based on distinct clinical phenotypes
in a large, international cohort of patients with PSC.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective outcome analysis of patients diagnosed with
PSC from 1980 through 2010 at 37 centers in Europe, North America, and Australia.
For each patient, we collected data on sex, clinician-reported age at and date of
PSC and IBD diagnoses, phenotypes of IBD and PSC, and date and indication of
IBD-related surgeries. The primary and secondary endpoints were liver
transplantation or death (LTD) and hepatopancreatobiliary malignancy,
respectively. Cox proportional hazards models were applied to determine the
effects of individual covariates on rates of clinical events, with time-to-event 
analysis ascertained through Kaplan-Meier estimates.
RESULTS: Of the 7121 patients in the cohort, 2616 met the primary endpoint
(median time-to-event of 14.5 years) and 721 developed hepatopancreatobiliary
malignancy. The most common malignancy was cholangiocarcinoma (n=594); patients
of advanced age at diagnosis had an increased incidence, compared with younger
patients (incidence rate [IR]: 1.2 per 100 patient-years for patients younger
than 20 years old, 6.0 per 100 patient-years for patients 21-30 years old, 9.0
per 100 patient-years for patients 31-40 years old, 14.0 per 100 patient-years
for patients 41-50 years old, 15.2 per 100 patient-years for patients 51-60 years
old, and 21.0 per 100 patient-years for patients older than 60 years). Of all
patients with PSC studied, 65.5% were men, 89.8% had classical or large-duct
disease, and 70.0% developed IBD at some point. Assessing the development of IBD 
as a time-dependent covariate, Crohn's disease (CD) and no IBD (both vs
ulcerative colitis [UC]) were associated with a lower risk of LTD (unadjusted
hazard ratio [HR], 0.62; P<.001 and HR, 0.90; P=.03; respectively) and malignancy
(HR, 0.68; P=.008 and HR, 0.77; P=.004, respectively). Small-duct PSC was
associated with a lower risk of LTD or malignancy compared with classic PSC (HR, 
0.30 and HR, 0.15, respectively; both P<.001). Female sex was also associated
with a lower risk of LTD or malignancy (HR, 0.88; P=.002 and HR, 0.68; P<.001,
respectively). In multivariable analyses assessing the primary endpoint,
small-duct PSC characterized a low-risk phenotype in both sexes (adjusted HR for 
men, 0.23; P<.001 and adjusted HR for women, 0.48; P=.003). Conversely, patients 
with UC had an increased risk of liver disease progression compared to patients
with CD (HR, 1.56; P<.001) or no IBD (HR, 1.15; P=.002).
CONCLUSIONS: In an analysis of data from individual patients with PSC worldwide, 
we found significant variation in clinical course associated with age at
diagnosis, sex, and ductal- and IBD subtypes. The survival estimates provided
might be used to estimate risk levels for patients with PSC and select patients
for clinical trials.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2017.02.038 
PMID: 28274849 


323. Sci Rep. 2017 Dec;7(1):92. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-00145-4. Epub 2017 Mar 7.

CSF-1 regulates the function of monocytes in Crohn's disease patients in
remission.

Nieto JC(1), Zamora C(2), Cantó E(2), Garcia-Planella E(3), Gordillo J(3), Ortiz 
MA(2), Juárez C(2,)(4), Vidal S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Recerca Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
jcnietos2@gmail.com. (2)Institut Recerca Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau,
Barcelona, Spain. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain. (4)Department of Immunology, Hospital de la Santa
Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain. (5)Institut Recerca Hospital de la Santa Creu 
i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain. svidal@santpau.cat.

During the flare-ups of Crohn's disease (CD) patients, circulating leukocytes
actively migrate toward the inflamed sites. During the remission, the lack of
symptoms does not necessarily imply immunological remission. To decipher
inflammatory mechanisms still operating during CD remission, we compared the
expression of chemokine receptors on monocytes from CD and healthy donors (HD),
and how these differences could modulate monocyte maturation and cytokine
production. Flow cytometry analysis showed a higher expression of CCR5 on
monocytes from CD patients than those from HD after 24 h. This CCR5 upregulation 
was associated with the spontaneous production of CSF-1 and IL-10. The higher
expression of CCR5 on CD monocytes increased their migratory pattern in response 
to CCL5. Signaling through CCR5/CCL5 increased CD163 and HLA-DR expression and
diminished TLR4-induced TNF-α and IL-6 secretion during monocyte differentiation.
When we analyzed clinical parameters, patients treated with azathioprine had the 
highest CSF-1 levels and CCR5 expression. Our results suggest that monocytes from
CD patients in remission produced high levels of CSF-1 that upregulate CCR5
expression. Consequently, monocytes differentiated in these conditions had a
characteristic phenotype and lower production of inflammatory cytokines. The
treatment with azathioprine could be responsible for this anti-inflammatory
profile of monocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-00145-4 
PMID: 28273887 


324. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 Jun - Jul;52(6-7):711-715. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1298834. Epub 2017 Mar 8.

G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) expresses differently in patients with
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.

Włodarczyk M(1,)(2), Sobolewska-Włodarczyk A(1,)(3), Cygankiewicz AI(4), Jacenik 
D(4), Krajewska WM(4), Stec-Michalska K(3), Piechota-Polańczyk A(1),
Wiśniewska-Jarosińska M(3), Fichna J(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Biochemistry , Medical University of Lodz , Lodz , Poland.
(2)b Department of General and Colorectal Surgery , Medical University of Lodz , 
Lodz , Poland. (3)c Department of Gastroenterology , Medical University of Lodz ,
Lodz , Poland. (4)d Department of Cytobiochemistry, Faculty of Biology and
Environmental Protection , University of Lodz , Lodz , Poland.

AIM: To investigate the levels of G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55)
expression in colonic tissue of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients and
healthy controls, and its potential implication in IBD treatment.
METHODS: Fifty patients were enrolled in our prospective study: n = 21 with
Crohn's disease (CD) and n = 16 with ulcerative colitis (UC); 19 women and 18
men. Control consisted of 13 non-IBD patients. In each subject, two biopsies were
taken from different colonic locations. In IBD patients, biopsies both from
endoscopically inflamed and non-inflamed areas were drawn and the development of 
inflammation confirmed in histopathological examination. GPR55 mRNA and protein
expression were measured using real-time PCR and Western blot, respectively.
RESULTS: GPR55 expression at mRNA and protein level was detected in all samples
tested. The level of GPR55 mRNA expression in non-inflamed colonic areas was
comparable in all analyzed groups (p = .2438). However, in the inflamed tissues
GPR55 mRNA expression was statistically significantly (p < .0001) higher (6.9
fold) in CD patients compared to UC. Moreover, CD patients manifested higher
(12.5 fold) GPR55 mRNA expression in inflamed compared with non-inflamed colonic 
tissues (p < .0001). Although no significant differences were stated, GPR55
protein level tends to decrease in IBD as compared to control.
CONCLUSIONS: Different patterns of GPR55 expression at mRNA level were observed
in IBD patients. We speculate that GPR55 is crucial for the mucosal inflammatory 
processes in IBD, particularly in CD and its expression may affect disease
severity, and response to treatment. The GPR55 receptors may become an attractive
target for novel therapeutic strategies in IBD.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1298834 
PMID: 28272905 


325. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Mar 7;18(3). pii: E575. doi: 10.3390/ijms18030575.

Serum-Infliximab Trough Levels in 45 Children with Inflammatory Bowel Disease on 
 Maintenance Treatment.

Rolandsdotter H(1,)(2), Marits P(3,)(4), Sundin U(5), Wikström AC(6,)(7),
Fagerberg UL(8,)(9), Finkel Y(10,)(11), Eberhardson M(12,)(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sachs' Children and Youth Hospital, SE-11883
Stockholm, Sweden. helena.jonsson.rolandsdotter@ki.se. (2)Department of Clinical 
Science and Education, Södersjukhuset, Karolinska Institute, SE-11883 Stockholm, 
Sweden. helena.jonsson.rolandsdotter@ki.se. (3)Department of Clinical Immunology 
and Transfusion Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, SE-17776 Stockholm,
Sweden. per.marits@sll.se. (4)Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institute,
SE-17776 Stockholm, Sweden. per.marits@sll.se. (5)Department of Clinical
Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, SE-17776
Stockholm, Sweden. ulf.sundin.49@gmail.com. (6)Department of Clinical Immunology 
and Transfusion Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, SE-17776 Stockholm,
Sweden. ann-charlotte.wikstrom@sll.se. (7)Department of Medicine Solna,
Karolinska Institute, SE-17776 Stockholm, Sweden. ann-charlotte.wikstrom@sll.se. 
(8)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institute, SE-11776
Stockholm, Sweden. ulrika.fagerberg@regionvastmanland.se. (9)Center for Clinical 
Research and Department of Pediatrics, Västmanland Hospital Vasteras, SE-72189
Västerås, Sweden. ulrika.fagerberg@regionvastmanland.se. (10)Department of
Gastroenterology, Sachs' Children and Youth Hospital, SE-11883 Stockholm, Sweden.
yigael.finkel@ki.se. (11)Department of Clinical Science and Education,
Södersjukhuset, Karolinska Institute, SE-11883 Stockholm, Sweden.
yigael.finkel@ki.se. (12)Department of Clinical Science and Education,
Södersjukhuset, Karolinska Institute, SE-11883 Stockholm, Sweden.
michael.eberhardson@ki.se. (13)Department of Gastroenterology, Danderyds
Hospital, SE-18288 Stockholm, Sweden. michael.eberhardson@ki.se.

The role of trough serum infliximab (s-IFX) and antibodies toward IFX (ATI)
during maintenance treatment remains unclear in children. The aim of the present 
study was to investigate trough s-IFX and ATI to identify any correlation with
inflammatory activity and clinical response in a pediatric inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD) cohort. We investigated the s-IFX trough levels in pediatric IBD
patients (n = 45) on maintenance IFX treatment. Ninety-three blood samples were
collected and demographics, C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation
rate (ESR), and albumin were recorded. The mean s-IFX trough level was 5.2 µg/mL.
The mean trough s-IFX level was significantly higher in the samples taken during 
remission (7.2 µg/mL) compared to active disease (4.5 µg/mL, p < 0.05). The
trough s-IFX levels correlated with ESR, CRP, and albumin. S-IFX was undetectable
in eight of the patients, all with positive ATI and active disease. Surprisingly,
clinical and biochemical remission was observed at only 26 of the 93 visits. The 
correlation between dose variations and changes in trough s-IFX was not evident. 
In line with studies in adults, the s-IFX trough levels correlated with response 
to infliximab.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18030575 
PMCID: PMC5372591
PMID: 28272355 


326. Clin J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 7. doi: 10.1007/s12328-017-0726-3. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Adalimumab therapy in a patient with Crohn's disease with a giant pelvic
paraganglioma after chemotherapy.

Mizoshita T(1), Ando M(2), Sagawa H(3), Mori Y(4), Katano T(4), Ozeki K(4),
Tanida S(4), Okamoto Y(4), Shimura T(4), Kubota E(4), Kataoka H(4), Kamiya T(4), 
Joh T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabolism, Nagoya City University Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, 1-Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, 467-8601, 
Japan. tmizoshi@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp. (2)Department of Clinical Oncology, Aichi
Cancer Center Hospital, 1-1 Kanokoden, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8681, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Nagoya City University Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, 1-Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, 467-8601, 
Japan. (4)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabolism, Nagoya City University
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1-Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya,
467-8601, Japan.

A 23-year-old man was diagnosed with a giant pelvic paraganglioma in September
2013, and a 6-month chemotherapy course was performed. The chemotherapy resulted 
in stable disease of the tumor for about 1 year. However, in April 2015, the
patient complained of fever and diarrhea of more than ten times a day. Endoscopy 
showed serpiginous (snake-like) ulcers in the cecum, ascending, descending, and
sigmoid colons, with granulomas without caseation histologically. The patient was
diagnosed with the active stage of Crohn's disease (CD) in June 2015. Oral
mesalazine (3000 mg/day) and an elemental diet (900 kcal/day) led to temporary
clinical remission. At the beginning of January in 2016, an abdominal abscess and
fistula were detected by computed tomography, which needed surgical treatment.
Adalimumab administration was started at the beginning of February, since active 
lesions were detected endoscopically. A second endoscopy showed improvement of
the inflammatory lesions 3 months after induction therapy with adalimumab.
Clinical remission has been maintained with adalimumab administration, with
stable disease of the tumor and no adverse events. To the best of our knowledge, 
this is the first report of a patient with a paraganglioma who developed CD after
chemotherapy. The patient was successfully treated with adalimumab after surgery 
for his CD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12328-017-0726-3 
PMID: 28271435 


327. Tech Coloproctol. 2017 Mar 7. doi: 10.1007/s10151-017-1599-7. [Epub ahead of
print]

Five years of experience with the FiLaC™ laser for fistula-in-ano management:
long-term follow-up from a single institution.

Wilhelm A(1), Fiebig A(2), Krawczak M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Colorectal and Pelvic Floor Diseases, Aachener Str. 1006-12, 50858, 
Cologne, Germany. arne.wilhelm@ebzkoeln.de. (2)Competence Network of Chronic
Venous Diseases, Kiel, Germany. (3)Institute of Medical Informatics and
Statistics, Christian-Albrechts-University, Kiel, Germany.

BACKGROUND: There are limited data available concerning endofistular therapies
for fistula-in-ano, with our group reporting the first preliminary outcomes of
the use of the radial fibre Fistula laser Closing (FiLaC ™) device.
METHODS: The aim of this study was to assess a cohort of anal fistulae managed
with laser ablation plus definitive flap closure of the internal fistula opening 
over a long-term follow-up. Factors governing primary healing success and
secondary healing success (i.e. success after one or two operations) were
determined.
RESULTS: The study analysed 117 patients over a median follow-up period of
25.4 months (range 6-60 months) with 13 patients (11.1%) having Crohn's-related
fistulae. No incontinence to solid and liquid stool was reported. Minor
incontinence to mucus and gas was observed in two cases (1.7%), and a late
abscess treated in one case (0.8%). The primary healing rate was 75/117 (64.1%)
overall, and 63.5% for cryptoglandular fistulae versus 69.2% for Crohn's
fistulae, respectively. Of the 42 patients who failed FiLaC™ 31 underwent a
second operation ("Re-FiLaC™", fistulectomy with sphincter reconstruction or
fistulotomy). The secondary healing rate, defined as healing of the fistula at
the end of the study period, was 103/117 (88.0%) overall and 85.5% for
cryptoglandular fistulae versus 92.3% for Crohn's fistulae. A significantly
higher primary success rate was observed for intersphincteric-type fistulae with 
primary and secondary outcome unaffected by age, gender, presence of Crohn's
disease, number of prior surgeries and the type of flap designed to close the
internal fistula opening.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a moderate primary success rate using first-up FiLaC™
treatment. If FiLaC™ fails, secondary success with repeat FiLaC™ or other
approaches was high. The minimally invasive FiLaC™ approach may therefore
represent a sensible first-line treatment option for anal fistula repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s10151-017-1599-7 
PMID: 28271331 


328. Biomed Opt Express. 2017 Jan 4;8(2):524-535. doi: 10.1364/BOE.8.000524.
eCollection 2017.

Clinical characterization of in vivo inflammatory bowel disease with Raman
spectroscopy.

Pence IJ(1), Beaulieu DB(2), Horst SN(2), Bi X(3), Herline AJ(4), Schwartz DA(2),
Mahadevan-Jansen A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee 37235, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition,
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee 37235, USA. (3)Department of Nanomedicine and Biomedical Engineering,
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas 77054, USA. 
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition, Department of Medicine, 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37235, USA; Department
of Surgery, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, Georgia 30912, USA.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's
disease (CD), affects over 1 million Americans and 2 million Europeans, and the
incidence is increasing worldwide. While these diseases require unique medical
care, the differentiation between UC and CD lacks a gold standard, and therefore 
relies on long term follow up, success or failure of existing treatment, and
recurrence of the disease. Here, we present colonoscopy-coupled fiber optic
probe-based Raman spectroscopy as a minimally-invasive diagnostic tool for IBD of
the colon (UC and Crohn's colitis). This pilot in vivo study of subjects with
existing IBD diagnoses of UC (n = 8), CD (n = 15), and normal control (n = 8)
aimed to characterize spectral signatures of UC and CD. Samples were correlated
with tissue pathology markers and endoscopic evaluation. The collected spectra
were processed and analyzed using multivariate statistical techniques to identify
spectral markers and discriminate IBD and disease classes. Confounding factors
including the presence of active inflammation and the particular colon segment
measured were investigated and integrated into the devised prediction algorithm, 
reaching 90% sensitivity and 75% specificity to CD from this in vivo data set.
These results represent significant progress towards improved real-time
classification for accurate and automated in vivo detection and discrimination of
IBD during colonoscopy procedures.

DOI: 10.1364/BOE.8.000524 
PMCID: PMC5330549
PMID: 28270965 


329. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;14(5):266-268. doi:
10.1038/nrgastro.2017.24. Epub 2017 Mar 8.

IBD: Genetic differences in Crohn's disease susceptibility and outcome.

Mondal K(1), Kugathasan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology,
1760 Haygood Drive, W427, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2017.24 
PMID: 28270696 


330. Acta Neuropsychiatr. 2017 Mar 8:1-22. doi: 10.1017/neu.2017.3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Gut-brain actions underlying comorbid anxiety and depression associated with
inflammatory bowel disease.

Abautret-Daly Á(1), Dempsey E(1), Parra-Blanco A(2), Medina C(2), Harkin A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Neuropsychopharmacology Research Group,Trinity College Institute of
Neuroscience,Trinity College,Dublin,Ireland. (2)3Department of
Gastroenterology,Hospital Central de Asturias,Oviedo,Spain.

Introduction Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic relapsing and
remitting disorder characterised by inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract.
There is a growing consensus that IBD is associated with anxiety- and
depression-related symptoms. Psychological symptoms appear to be more prevalent
during active disease states with no difference in prevalence between Crohn's
disease and ulcerative colitis. Behavioural disturbances including anxiety- and
depression-like symptoms have also been observed in animal models of IBD.RESULTS:
The likely mechanisms underlying the association are discussed with particular
reference to communication between the gut and brain. The close bidirectional
relationship known as the gut-brain axis includes neural, hormonal and immune
communication links. Evidence is provided for a number of interacting factors
including activation of the inflammatory response system in the brain, the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and brain areas implicated in altered
behaviours, changes in blood brain barrier integrity, and an emerging role for
gut microbiota and response to probiotics in IBD. Discussion The impact of
psychological stress in models of IBD remains somewhat conflicted, however, it is
weighted in favour of stress or early stressful life events as risk factors in
the development of IBD, stress-induced exacerbation of inflammation and relapse.
CONCLUSION: It is recommended that patients with IBD be screened for
psychological disturbance and treated accordingly as intervention can improve
quality of life and may reduce relapse rates.

DOI: 10.1017/neu.2017.3 
PMID: 28270247 


331. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2017 May;52(5):564-569. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2017.1284893. Epub 2017 Feb 13.

Evaluation of the efficacy of octreotide LAR in the treatment of Crohn's disease 
associated refractory diarrhea.

Martelli L(1), Colard A(1), Fontaine F(1), Deflandre J(2), Bastens B(1), Louis
E(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Gastroenterology , CHC Clinique Saint-Joseph , Liège ,
Belgium. (2)b Department of Gastroenterology , CHR Citadelle , Liège , Belgium.
(3)c Department of Gastroenterology , University Hospital CHU of Liège , Liège , 
Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: Diarrhea is one of the main symptoms of Crohn's disease (CD). It is
usually significantly improved with specific CD treatments, loperamide or
cholestyramine. However, in some cases, diarrhea becomes refractory. The aim of
this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of octreotide in this situation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen patients with CD refractory diarrhea defined by at
least an average of five smooth or liquid stools per day despite an optimized CD 
treatment were included from three Belgian centers. Two patients were lost to
follow-up. A subcutaneous injection of 100 μg octreotide was performed three
times a day during three days. When the drug had been well tolerated, an
intramuscular injection of 30 mg octreotide (Sandostatin(®) LAR 30) was realized.
Evaluation was done at day 31. The primary endpoint was to assess the effect on
the mean number of smooth or liquid stools per day.
RESULTS: A significant reduction (p = 0.0001) of the average number of smooth or 
liquid stools over the last seven days was observed between baseline and day 31. 
The maximum number of smooth or liquid stools also significantly decreased
(p = 0.0009). Four patients (26.7%) presented mild nonspecific adverse events but
no serious one. We also observed a significant decrease (p = 0.0006) of the
Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI) and a significant improvement (p = 0.0012) of the
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ).
CONCLUSIONS: In this uncontrolled open-label study, octreotide appeared safe and 
effective in CD refractory diarrhea, in addition to CD treatments. It
significantly improved the number of liquid or smooth stools, the HBI and the
IBDQ.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2017.1284893 
PMID: 28270045 


332. AMIA Annu Symp Proc. 2017 Feb 10;2016:884-893. eCollection 2016.

Bayesian Machine Learning Techniques for revealing complex interactions among
genetic and clinical factors in association with extra-intestinal Manifestations 
in IBD patients.

Menti E(1), Lanera C(1), Lorenzoni G(1), Giachino DF(2), Marchi M(2), Gregori
D(1), Berchialla P(3); Piedmont Study Group on the Genetics of IBD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Padova,
Italy. (2)Medical Genetics Unit, Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, 
University of Torino, Italy. (3)Medical Statistics Unit, Department of Clinical
and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, Italy.

The objective of the study is to assess the predictive performance of three
different techniques as classifiers for extra-intestinal manifestations in 152
patients with Crohn's disease. Naïve Bayes, Bayesian Additive Regression Trees
and Bayesian Networks implemented using a Greedy Thick Thinning algorithm for
learning dependencies among variables and EM algorithm for learning conditional
probabilities associated to each variable are taken into account. Three sets of
variables were considered: (i) disease characteristics: presentation, behavior
and location (ii) risk factors: age, gender, smoke and familiarity and (iii)
genetic polymorphisms of the NOD2, CD14, TNFA, IL12B, and IL1RN genes, whose
involvement in Crohn's disease is known or suspected. Extra-intestinal
manifestations occurred in 75 patients. Bayesian Networks achieved accuracy of
82% when considering only clinical factors and 89% when considering also genetic 
information, outperforming the other techniques. CD14 has a small predicting
capability. Adding TNFA, IL12B to the 3020insC NOD2 variant improved the
accuracy.


PMCID: PMC5333221
PMID: 28269885 


333. Pharmacol Rep. 2017 Jan 12;69(3):386-392. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2017.01.003.
[Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of anti-inflammatory effect of silver-coated glass beads in mice with 
experimentally induced colitis as a new type of treatment in inflammatory bowel
disease.

Siczek K(1), Zatorski H(2), Chmielowiec-Korzeniowska A(3), Kordek R(4), Tymczyna 
L(3), Fichna J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz,
Łódź, Poland; Department of Vehicles and Fundamentals of Machine Design, Faculty 
of Mechanical Engineering, Lodz University of Technology, Łódź, Poland.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz,
Łódź, Poland. (3)Department of Animal Hygiene and Environment, Faculty of Biology
and Animal Breeding, University of Agriculture in Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz,
Łódź, Poland. (5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical
University of Lodz, Łódź, Poland. Electronic address: jakub.fichna@umed.lodz.pl.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies point at the anti-inflammatory action of silver
through induction of apoptosis of inflammatory cells via oxidative stress,
promotion of wound healing as well as antimicrobial effect. Our aim was to design
a new formulation based on silver and validate its anti-inflammatory activity in 
the mouse models of colitis.
METHODS: Silver-coated glass beads were prepared using a magnetron sputtering
method and a standard magnetron sputtering gun equipped with pure silver target. 
Colitis was induced by the ic administration of TNBS into colon (to mimic Crohn's
disease) and addition of DSS to drinking water (to imitate ulcerative colitis).
Evaluation of inflammation was performed based on macroscopic and microscopic
scoring, quantification of the myeloperoxidase activity and colonic microflora
analysis.
RESULTS: Silver-coated glass beads administered ic alleviated intestinal
inflammation in mouse models of colitis, induced by TNBS and DSS. This
alleviation of colitis resulted principally from changes in the gut microflora.
The anti-inflammatory action of the new formulation was associated predominantly 
with the presence of the silver nanolayer on the beads, and to a lesser extent
the size of glass polymer units.
CONCLUSIONS: The application of the newly developed formulation employing
silver-coated glass beads has the potential to be translated to clinical
conditions for the efficient treatment of IBD.

Copyright © 2017 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. Published
by Elsevier Urban & Partner Sp. z o.o. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharep.2017.01.003 
PMID: 28267639 


334. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2017 May;64(5):818-835. doi:
10.1097/MPG.0000000000001562.

Surgical Management of Crohn Disease in Children: Guidelines From the Paediatric 
IBD Porto Group of ESPGHAN.

Amil-Dias J(1), Kolacek S, Turner D, Pærregaard A, Rintala R, Afzal NA,
Karolewska-Bochenek K, Bronsky J, Chong S, Fell J, Hojsak I, Hugot JP, Koletzko
S, Kumar D, Lazowska-Przeorek I, Lillehei C, Lionetti P, Martin-de-Carpi J,
Pakarinen M, Ruemmele FM, Shaoul R, Spray C, Staiano A, Sugarman I, Wilson DC,
Winter H, Kolho KL; IBD Working Group of ESPGHAN (IBD Porto Group).

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Pediatrics, Centro Hospitalar, S. João, Porto, Portugal
†Children's Hospital Zagreb, Faculty of Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia ‡The Juliet
Keidan Institute of Pediatric Gastroenterology & Nutrition, Shaare Zedek Medical 
Center, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel §Department of
Pediatrics, Hvidovre University Hospital, Hvidovre, Denmark ||Pediatric Surgery, 
Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ¶Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, UK
#Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Medical University of
Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland **Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital Motol,
Prague, Czech Republic ††Queen Mary's Hospital for Children, Epsom and St Helier 
NHS Trust, Surrey ‡‡Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London, UK §§Paris-Diderot 
Sorbonne-Paris-Cité University and Robert Debré Hospital, Paris, France
||||Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Dr. von Hauner Children's
Hospital, Ludwig Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany ¶¶St George's,
University of London, London, UK ##Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA ***Department NEUROFARBA, University of Florence - Meyer
Hospital, Florence, Italy †††Unit for the Comprehensive Care of Pediatric
Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, Spain
‡‡‡Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Necker Enfants Malades University
Hospital, Sorbonne Paris Cité University, Paris Descartes University, Institut
IMAGINE - INSERM U1163, Paris, France §§§Pediatric Gastroenterology Institute,
Ruth Children's Hospital, Rambam Medical Center, Haifa, Israel ||||||Department
of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, Bristol, UK
¶¶¶Department of Translational Medical Science, Section of Pediatrics, University
of Naples "Federico II," Naples, Italy ###Department of Pediatric Surgery, Leeds 
Children's Hospital, Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds, UK ****Child Life and
Health, University of Edinburgh, Scotland, UK ††††MassGeneral Hospital for
Children, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA ‡‡‡‡Children's Hospital, University 
of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

The incidence of Crohn disease (CD) has been increasing and surgery needs to be
contemplated in a substantial number of cases. The relevant advent of biological 
treatment has changed but not eliminated the need for surgery in many patients.
Despite previous publications on the indications for surgery in CD, there was a
need for a comprehensive review of existing evidence on the role of elective
surgery and options in pediatric patients affected with CD. We present an expert 
opinion and critical review of the literature to provide evidence-based guidance 
to manage these patients. Indications, surgical options, risk factors, and
medications in pre- and perioperative period are reviewed in the light of
available evidence. Risks and benefits of surgical options are addressed. An
algorithm is proposed for the management of postsurgery monitoring, timing for
follow-up endoscopy, and treatment options.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001562 
PMID: 28267075 


335. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr;23(4):485-493. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001034.

Development and Feasibility Study of a Telemedicine Tool for All Patients with
IBD: MyIBDcoach.

de Jong M(1), van der Meulen-de Jong A, Romberg-Camps M, Degens J, Becx M, Markus
T, Tomlow H, Cilissen M, Ipenburg N, Verwey M, Colautti-Duijsens L, Hameeteman W,
Masclee A, Jonkers D, Pierik M.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Maastricht University Medical Center+, Maastricht, Netherlands; †NUTRIM School
for Nutrition and Translational Research in Metabolism, Maastricht University
Medical Center+, Maastricht, Netherlands; ‡Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, Netherlands; §Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Zuyderland Medical Center, Sittard-Geleen,
Netherlands; ‖Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, St. Antonius
Hospital, Nieuwegein, Netherlands; ¶CCUVN, Dutch IBD Patients Organization,
Woerden, Netherlands; and **N-NIC, Nurses Network IBD Care, Nurses Initiative on 
Crohn and Colitis, Utrecht, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Tight control of disease activity, medication side effects, and
adherence are crucial to prevent disease complications and improve quality of
life in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The chronic nature and
increasing incidence of IBD demand health care innovations to guarantee future
high-quality care. Previous research proved that integrated care by telemedicine 
can improve outcomes of chronic diseases. Currently available IBD telemedicine
tools focus on specific patient subgroups. Therefore, we aimed to (1) develop a
telemedicine system suitable for all patients with IBD in everyday practice and
(2) to test this system's feasibility.
METHODS: With a structured iterative process between patients, dietitians, IBD
nurse-specialists, and gastroenterologists, myIBDcoach was developed. During 3
months, myIBDcoach's feasibility was tested by 30 consecutive outpatients with
IBD of 3 hospitals. Thereafter, patients and health care providers completed a
questionnaire covering satisfaction, accessibility, and experiences with
myIBDcoach.
RESULTS: MyIBDcoach enables continuous home-monitoring of patients with IBD and
optimizes disease knowledge and communication between patients and health care
providers. Besides disease activity, medication adherence, and side effects,
myIBDcoach monitors malnutrition, smoking, quality of life, fatigue, life-events,
work participation, stress, and anxiety and depression and provides e-learnings
for patient empowerment. Patients graded the system with a mean of 7.8 of 10, and
93% would recommend myIBDcoach to other patients.
CONCLUSIONS: We developed myIBDcoach, which enables integrated care for all
patients with IBD, regardless of disease severity or medication use. The
feasibility study showed high satisfaction and compliance of patients and health 
care providers. To study myIBDcoach's efficacy, a multicenter randomized
controlled trial has been initiated.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001034 
PMID: 28267047 


336. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Apr;23(4):641-649. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001054.

A Fixed Stricture on Routine Cross-sectional Imaging Predicts Disease-Related
Complications and Adverse Outcomes in Patients with Crohn's Disease.

Chaudhry NA(1), Riverso M, Grajo JR, Moser PP, Zou F, Homsi M, Punglia DR,
Zimmermann EM.

Author information: 
(1)*Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida; Departments of †Medicine, ‡Radiology, and §Biostatistics,
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida; ‖Department of Medicine, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Elmhurst Hospital Center, New York, New York; 
and ¶Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Crohn's disease (CD) typically undergo multiple
cross-sectional imaging exams including computed tomography and magnetic
resonance enterography during the course of their disease. The aim was to
identify imaging findings that predict future disease-related poor outcomes.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, case control study at a single tertiary
center. Cases were CD patients diagnosed with complications (bowel obstruction,
perforation, internal fistula, or abscess); controls were CD patients without
complications. Two radiologists blinded to clinical outcomes, independently
scored cross-sectional imaging examinations obtained before the complication.
RESULTS: One hundred eight patients (67 F; 41 M) with CD (51 cases; 57 controls) 
were included. For the cases, 21 had internal fistulae, 15 had bowel
obstructions, 13 had abdominal abscesses, and 2 developed bowel perforations.
Patients with complications were more likely to have a fixed small bowel
stricture on cross-sectional imaging (P = 0.01). A patient with a stricture and
upstream dilatation was 3.4 times more likely to develop a complication in the
next 2 years. When present in the setting of hypervascularity and/or evidence of 
active inflammation, the risk increased further to 15-fold. Cases were more
likely to be active smokers (29% versus 12%, P = 0.033). Cases had more evidence 
of inflammation based on higher Harvey Bradshaw Index values and inflammatory
biomarkers and lower hemoglobin values.
CONCLUSIONS: Information from radiologic studies, especially the presence of
fixed strictures, can predict future CD complications. These findings, along with
smoking and ongoing inflammation, should alert the clinician to the possibility
of future complications.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001054 
PMID: 28267043 


337. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 May;62(5):1354-1361. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4495-0. Epub 2017 
Mar 6.

Intestinal Inflammation Does Not Predict Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
Severity in Inflammatory Bowel Disease Patients.

Carr RM(1), Patel A(2), Bownik H(3,)(4), Oranu A(3), Kerner C(3,)(5), Praestgaard
A(6,)(7), Forde KA(3,)(8), Reddy KR(3,)(9), Lichtenstein GR(3,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania, 421 Curie Boulevard,
907 Biomedical Research Building II/III, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
rotonya.carr@uphs.upenn.edu. (2)UCLA GI Fellowship Training Program, Division of 
Digestive Diseases, UCLA, 10945 Le Conte Ave, PVUB 2114, MC 694907, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90095-6949, USA. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania,
421 Curie Boulevard, 907 Biomedical Research Building II/III, Philadelphia, PA,
19104, USA. (4), 106 W. 14th Street Unit 3002, Kansas City, MO, 64105, USA.
(5)Pennsylvania Hospital Gastroenterology, 230 West Washington Square, 4th Floor,
Philadelphia, PA, 19106, USA. (6)Biostatistics Analysis Center, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (7)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, University of Pennsylvania, 518 Blockley Hall 423 Guardian Drive, 
Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (8)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 423
Guardian Drive 722 Blockley Hall, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (9)Hospital of
the University of Pennsylvania, 2 Dulles, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA,
19104, USA. (10)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 7-South Perelman
Center, Room 753, One Convention Avenue, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common cause of
hepatic steatosis in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Both
metabolic syndrome (MetS) and intestinal inflammation are implicated in NAFLD
pathogenesis.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study of patients with IBD and NAFLD
seen in our health system from January 1997 to December 2011 to examine
associations between IBD severity and phenotype; MetS; and NAFLD fibrosis as
estimated by the NAFLD Fibrosis Score (NFS).
RESULTS: A total of 84 patients were included in our analysis (24 UC, 60 CD). 23%
of patients had MetS. IBD patients with MetS were significantly older at the time
of IBD diagnosis (44 vs. 33, p = 0.005) and NAFLD diagnosis (55 vs. 47,
p = 0.018). IBD patients with MetS had higher ALT (54 vs. 38 U/L, p = 0.02) and
AST (52 vs. 35 U/L, p = 0.004). Comparing MetS patients to non-MetS IBD patients,
there was no significant difference between IBD medication use (i.e., steroids,
anti-TNFs, and immunomodulators) or NAFLD medication use, other than statins.
Both UC and CD patients with concomitant MetS had significantly higher NFS scores
than non-MetS patients: UC (-0.4 vs. -2.5, p = 0.02) and CD (-0.8 vs. -2.3,
p = 0.03). IBD disease severity, disease location, or IBD medication use was
associated with NAFLD severity.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate that NAFLD 
severity in both UC and CD IBD patients is associated with the presence of MetS
but not with the severity of IBD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4495-0 
PMID: 28265826 


338. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2017 Feb 28;14(3). pii: E238. doi:
10.3390/ijerph14030238.

The Disease Burden and Clinical Characteristics of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in 
the Chinese Population: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Li X(1,)(2), Song P(3,)(4), Li J(5), Tao Y(6), Li G(7), Li X(8), Yu Z(9).

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China. 
xue.li@ed.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of
Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, UK. xue.li@ed.ac.uk. (3)School of Public Health,
Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China. p.song@sms.ed.ac.uk.
(4)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 
9AG, UK. p.song@sms.ed.ac.uk. (5)The 153 Hospital of People's Liberation Army,
Zhengzhou 450001, China. shuaidexue@126.com. (6)School of Public Health, Xinxiang
Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China. yuyuzaijia@163.com. (7)Department of 
Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8,
Canada. lig28@mcmaster.ca. (8)Department Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated
Hospital of Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China.
lxm3029981@126.com. (9)School of Public Health, Xinxiang Medical University,
Xinxiang 453003, China. yuzengli@outlook.com.

The temporal trend of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) incidence is reported to
be increasing in worldwide regions; however, reports focusing on China are
sparse. The aim of this study was to provide an overview of the disease burden
and clinical features of IBD in the Chinese population. We searched Medline,
EMBASE, and another two Chinese databases. A parallel literature review and data 
extraction were conducted. Meta-analysis was performed to estimate the summary
incidence rate of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). The
constituent ratios with 95% CI were calculated for clinical phenotypes and
classifications. The literature review included 47 publications. The summary
incidence rate of IBD was 1.74 (95% CI: 1.08; 2.40) per 100,000 person years, and
the corresponding incidence rates of CD and UC were 0.40 (95% CI: 0.23; 0.57) and
1.18 (95% CI: 0.81; 1.56) per 100,000 person years, respectively. The sex
distribution analysis indicated a male predominance in both CD (sex ratio: 1.64; 
95% CI: 1.47-1.84) and UC (sex ratio: 1.29; 95% CI: 1.21-1.38). The clinical
characteristics were summarized using data from 2283 CD cases and 17,958 UC
cases; in which the majority of CD patients were diagnosed between 17-40 years of
age, with non-stricturing and non-penetrating disease, varied disease locations, 
and less extra-intestinal manifestation. UC cases were featured with later
disease diagnosis, a more severe disease course, more segmental lesions, and less
extra-intestinal manifestations. Our study provided an estimated disease burden
of IBD and demonstrated distinct clinical features in the Chinese population.
Large-scale population-based studies are needed to further evaluate these
findings.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph14030238 
PMCID: PMC5369074
PMID: 28264519 


339. J Infect. 2017 May;74(5):433-441. doi: 10.1016/j.jinf.2017.02.009. Epub 2017 Mar 
2.

Diagnostic and vaccine strategies to prevent infections in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease.

Mazzola G(1), Macaluso FS(2), Adamoli L(1), Renna S(2), Cascio A(1), Orlando
A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sciences for Health Promotion " G. D'Alessandro", University of 
Palermo, Via del Vespro 133, 90127 Palermo, Italy. (2)Di.Bi.M.I.S., Division of
Internal Medicine, "Villa Sofia-Cervello" Hospital, Via Trabucco 180, 90146
Palermo, Italy. (3)Di.Bi.M.I.S., Division of Internal Medicine, "Villa
Sofia-Cervello" Hospital, Via Trabucco 180, 90146 Palermo, Italy. Electronic
address: ambrogiorlando@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: The treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been
revolutionized by the use of immunomodulatory agents. Although these potent drugs
are effective in controlling disease activity, they also cause an increased risk 
of new infections or reactivation of latent infections. On these premises, we
aimed to provide guidance on the definitions of immunocompromised patients,
opportunistic infections and the risk factors associated with their occurrence in
an IBD context, and to suggest the proper screening tests for infectious diseases
and the vaccination schedules to perform before and/or during therapy with
immunomodulators.
METHODS: All the most recent evidences - filtered by the combined work of
gastroenterologists and infectious disease experts - were summarized with the aim
to provide a practical standpoint for the physician.
RESULTS: A systematic screening of all infections which may arise during therapy 
with immunomodulator drugs is necessary in all patients with IBD.
CONCLUSIONS: The ideal timing to perform screening tests and vaccinations is at
the diagnosis of the disease, regardless of its severity at onset, because the
course of IBD and its treatment may vary over time, and an immunocompromised
status may hamper efficacy and/or possibility to perform all necessary vaccines.

Copyright © 2017 The British Infection Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinf.2017.02.009 
PMID: 28263759 


340. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Mar 6. doi: 10.1111/codi.13646. [Epub ahead of print]

The relationship between method of anastomosis and anastomotic failure after
right hemicolectomy and ileo-caecal resection: an international snapshot audit.

2015 European Society of Coloproctology collaborating group.

Collaborators: Pinkney T, Battersby N, Bhangu A, Chaudhri S, El-Hussuna A,
Frasson M, Nepogodiev D, Singh B, Vennix S, Zmora O, Altomare D, Bemelman W,
Christensen P, D'Hoore A, Laurberg S, Morton D, Pinkney T, Rubbini M, Vaizey C,
Magill L, Perry R, Sheward N, Ives N, Mehta S, Cillo M, Estefania D, Patron
Uriburu J, Ruiz H, Salomon M, Makhmudov A, Selnyahina L, Varabei A, Vizhynis Y,
Claeys D, Defoort B, Muysoms F, Pletinckx P, Vergucht V, Debergh I, Feryn T,
Reusens H, Nachtergaele M, Francart D, Jehaes C, Markiewicz S, Monami B, Weerts
J, Bouckaert W, Houben B, Knol J, Sergeant G, Vangertruyden G, Haeck L, Lange C, 
Sommeling C, Vindevoghel K, Castro S, De Bruyn H, Huyghe M, De Wolf E, Reynders
D, D'Hoore A, de Buck van Overstraeten A, Wolthuis A, Delibegovic S, Christiani
A, Marchiori M Jr, Rocha de Moraes C, Tercioti V Jr, Arabadjieva E, Bulanov D,
Dardanov D, Stoyanov V, Yonkov A, Angelov K, Maslyankov S, Sokolov M, Todorov G, 
Toshev S, Georgiev Y, Karashmalakov A, Zafirov G, Wang X, Condic D, Kraljik D,
Mrkovic H, Pavkovic V, Raguž K, Bencurik V, Holášková E, Skrovina M, Farkašová M,
Grolich T, Kala Z, Antos F, Pruchova V, Sotona O, Chobola M, Dusek T, Ferko A,
Örhalmi J, Hoch J, Kocian P, Martinek L, Bernstein I, Gotschalck Sunesen K,
Leunbach J, Thorlacius-Ussing O, Uth Oveson A, Christensen P, Dahl Chirstensen S,
Gamez V, Oeting M, Schou Loeve U, Ugianskis A, Jessen M, Krarup P, Linde K, Mirza
Q, Overgaard Stovring J, Erritzøe L, Loft Jakobsen H, Lykke J, Palmgren Colov E, 
Husted Madsen A, Linde Friis T, Amstrup Funder J, Dich R, Kjaer S, Rasmussen S,
Schlesinger N, Dilling Kjaer M, Qvist N, Khalid A, Ali G, El-Hussuna A, Hadi S,
Rosell Walker L, Kivelä A, Lehtonen T, Lepistö A, Scheinin T, Siironen P, Kössi
J, Kuusanmäki P, Tomminen T, Turunen A, Rautio T, Vierimaa M, Huhtinen H,
Karvonen J, Lavonius M, Rantala A, Varpe P, Cotte E, Francois Y, Glehen O,
Kepenekian V, Passot G, Manceau G, Panis Y, Gout M, Rullier E, van Geluwe B,
Chafai N, Lefevre JH, Parc Y, Tiret E, Couette C, Duchalais E, Agha A, Hornberger
M, Hungbauer A, Iesalnieks I, Weindl I, Crescenti F, Keller M, Kolodziejski N,
Scherer R, Sterzing D, Bock B, Boehm G, El-Magd M, Krones C, Niewiera M, Buhr J, 
Cordesmeyer S, Hoffmann M, Krückemeier K, Vogel T, Schön M, Baral J, Lukoschek T,
Münch S, Pullig F, Horisberger K, Kienle P, Magdeburg J, Post S, Batzalexis K,
Germanos S, Agalianos C, Dervenis C, Gouvas N, Kanavidis P, Kottikias A,
Katsoulis IE, Korkolis D, Plataniotis G, Sakorafas G, Akrida I, Argentou M,
Kollatos C, Lampropoulos C, Tsochatzis S, Besznyák I, Bursics A, Egyed T, Papp G,
Svastics I, Atladottir J, Möller P, Sigurdsson H, Stefánsson T, Valsdottir E,
Andrews E, Foley N, Hechtl D, Majeed M, McCourt M, Hanly A, Hyland J, Martin S,
O'Connell PR, Winter D, Connelly T, Joyce W, Wrafter P, Berkovitz R, Avital S,
Haj Yahia I, Hermann N, Shpitz B, White I, Lishtzinsky Y, Tsherniak A, Wasserberg
N, Horesh N, Keler U, Pery R, Shapiro R, Zmora O, Tulchinsky H, Badran B, Dayan
K, Iskhakov A, Lecaros J, Nabih N, Angrima I, Bardini R, Pizzolato E, Tonello M, 
Arces F, Balestri R, Ceccarelli C, Prosperi V, Rossi E, Giannini I, Vincenti L,
Altomare DF, Di Candido F, Di Iena M, Guglielmi A, Caputi-Iambrenghi O, Marsanic 
P, Mellano A, Muratore A, Annecchiarico M, Bencini L, Amore Bonapasta S, Coratti 
A, Guerra F, Asteria CR, Boccia L, Gerard L, Pascariello A, Manca G, Marino F,
Casaril A, Inama M, Moretto G, Bacchelli C, Carvello M, Mariani N, Montorsi M,
Spinelli A, Romairone E, Scabini S, Belli A, Bianco F, De Franciscis S, Maria
Romano G, Delrio P, Pace U, Rega D, Sassaroli C, Scala D, De Luca R, Ruggieri E, 
Elbetti C, Garzi A, Romoli L, Scatizzi M, Vannucchi A, Curletti G, Durante V,
Galleano R, Mariani F, Reggiani L, Bellomo R, Infantino A, Franceschilli L,
Sileri P, Clementi I, Coletta D, La Torre F, Mingoli A, Velluti F, Di Giacomo A, 
Fiorot A, Massani M, Padoan L, Ruffolo C, Caruso S, Franceschini F, Laessig R,
Monaci I, Rontini M, De Nardi P, Elmore U, Lemma M, Rosati R, Tamburini A, De
Luca M, Sartori A, Benevento A, Bottini C, Ferrari CC, Pata F, Tessera G, Pellino
G, Selvaggi F, Lanzani A, Romano F, Sgroi G, Steccanella F, Turati L, Yamamoto T,
Ancans G, Gerkis S, Leja M, Pcolkins A, Sivins A, Latkauskas T, Lizdenis P,
Saladžinskas Ž, Švagždys S, Tamelis A, Razbadauskas A, Sokolovas M, Dulskas A,
Samalavicius N, Jotautas V, Mikalauskas S, Poskus E, Poskus T, Strupas K,
Camenzuli C, Cini C, Predrag A, Psaila J, Spiteri N, Bemelman W, Buskens C, de
Groof EJ, Gooszen J, Tanis P, Belgers E, Davids P, Furnee E, Postma E, Pronk A,
Smakman N, Clermonts S, Zimmerman D, Omloo J, van der Zaag E, van Duijvendijk P, 
Wassenaar E, Bruijninckx M, de Graff E, Doornebosch P, Tetteroo G, Vermaas M,
Iordens G, Knops S, Toorenvliet B, van Westereenen HL, Boerma E, Coene P, van der
Harst E, Van Der Pool A, Raber M, Melenhorst J, de Castro S, Gerhards M, Arron M,
Bremers A, de Wilt H, Ferenschild F, Yauw S, Cense H, Demirkiran A, Hunfeld M,
Mulder I, Nonner J, Swank H, van Wagensveld B, Bolmers M, Briel J, van Geloven A,
van Rossem C, Klemann V, Konsten J, Leenders B, Schok T, Bleeker W, Gidwani A,
Lawther R, Loughlin P, Skelly B, Spence R, Brun M, Helgeland M, Ignjatovic D,
Øresland T, Yousefi P, Flåten Backe I, Helmer Sjo O, Nesbakken A,
Tandberg-Eriksen M, Cais A, Hallvard Traeland J, Herikstad R, Kørner H, Lauvland 
N, Jajtner D, Kabiesz W, Rak M, Gmerek L, Horbacka K, Horst N, Krokowicz P,
Kwiatkowski A, Pasnik K, Karcz P, Romaniszyn M, Rusek T, Walega P, Czarencki R,
Obuszko Z, Sitarska M, Wojciech W, Zawadzki M, Amado S, Clara P, Couceiro A,
Malaquias R, Rama N, Almeida A, Barbosa E, Cernadas E, Duarte A, Silva P, Costa
S, Martinez Insua C, Pereira J, Pereira C, Sacchetti M, Carvalho Pinto B, Jorge
Vieira Sousa P, Marques R, Oliveira A, Cardoso R, Carlos S, Corte-Real J, Moniz
Pereira P, Souto R, Carneiro C, Marinho R, Nunes V, Rocha R, Sousa M, Leite J,
Melo F, Pimentel J, Ventura L, Vila Nova C, Copăescu C, Bintintan V, Ciuce C,
Dindelegan G, Scurtu R, Seicean R, Domansky N, Karachun A, Moiseenko A, Pelipas
Y, Petrov A, Pravosudov I, Aiupov R, Akmalov Y, Parfenov A, Suleymanov N, Tarasov
N, Jumabaev H, Mamedli Z, Rasulov A, Aliev I, Chernikovskiy I, Kochnev V, Komyak 
K, Pravosudov I, Smirnov A, Achkasov S, Bolikhov K, Shelygin Y, Sushkov O,
Zapolskiy A, Gvozdenovic M, Jovanovic D, Lausevic Z, Cvetković D, Maravić M,
Milovanovic B, Stojakovic N, Tripković I, Mihajlovic D, Nestorovic M, Pecic V,
Petrovic D, Stanojevic G, Barisic G, Dimitrijevic I, Krivokapic Z, Markovic V,
Popovic M, Aleksic A, Dabic D, Kostic I, Milojkovic A, Perunicic V, Lukic D,
Petrovic T, Radovanovic D, Radovanovic Z, Cuk VM, Cuk VV, Kenic M, Kovacevic B,
Krdzic I, Korcek J, Rems M, Toplak J, Escarrâ J, Gil Barrionuevo M, Golda T,
Kreisler Moreno E, Zerpa Martin C, Álvarez Laso C, Cumplido P, Padin H, Baixauli 
Fons J, Hernández-Lizoain J, Martinez-Ortega P, Molina-Fernández M,
Sánchez-Justicia C, Antonio Gracia Solanas J, Córdoba Díaz de Laspra E,
Echazarreta-Gallego E, Elia-Guedea M, Ramirez J, Arredondo Chaves J, Diez
González P, Elosua T, Sahagún J, Turienzo Frade A, Álvarez Conde J, Castrillo E, 
Diaz Maag R, Maderuelo V, Saldarriaga L, Aldrey Cao I, Fernández Varela X, Núñez 
Fernández S, Parajó Calvo A, Villar Álvarez S, Blesa Sierra I, Duarte A, Lozano
R, Márquez M, Porcel O, Menendez P, Fernández Hevia M, Flores Sigüenza L, Jimenez
Toscano M, Lacy Fortuny A, Ordoñez Trujillo J, Espi A, Garcia-Botello S,
Martín-Arévalo J, Moro-Valdezate D, Pla-Martí V, Blanco-Antona F, Abrisqueta J,
Ibañez Canovas N, Lujan Mompean J, Escolá Ripoll D, Martinez Gonzalez S, Parodi
J, Fernández López A, Ramos Fernández M, Castellvi Valls J, Ortiz de Zarate L,
Ribas R, Sabia D, Viso L, Alonso Gonçalves S, José Gil Egea M, Pascual Damieta M,
Pera M, Salvans Ruiz S, Bernal J, Landete F, Ais G, Etreros J, Aguiló Lucia J,
Boscá A, Deusa S, García Del Caño J, Viciano V, García-Armengol J, Roig J, Blas
J, Escartin J, Fatás J, Fernando J, Ferrer R, Arias Pacheco R, García Flórez L,
Moreno Gijón M, Otero Díez J, Solar Garcia L, Aguilar Teixido F, Balaguer Ojo C, 
Bargallo Berzosa J, Lamas Moure S, Enrique Sierra J, Fermiñán A, Herrerias F,
Rufas M, Viñas J, Codina-Cazador A, Farrés R, Gómez N, Julià D, Planellas P,
López J, Luna A, Maristany C, Muñoz Duyos A, Puértolas N, Alcantara Moral M,
Serra-Aracil X, Concheiro Coello P, Gómez D, Carton C, Miguel A, Reoyo Pascual F,
Valero Cerrato X, Zambrano Muñoz R, Cervera-Aldama J, García González J,
Ramos-Prada J, Santamaría-Olabarrieta M, Urigüen-Echeverría A, Coves Alcover R,
Espinosa Soria J, Fernandez Rodriguez E, Hernandis Villalba J, Maturana Ibañez V,
De la Torre Gonzalez F, Huerga D, Pérez Viejo E, Rivera A, Ruiz Ucar E,
Garcia-Septiem J, Jiménez V, Jiménez Miramón J, Ramons Rodriquez J, Rodriguez
Alvarez V, Garcea A, Ponchietti L, Borda N, Enriquez-Navascues J, Saralegui Y,
Febles Molina G, Nogues E, Rodríguez Méndez Á, Roque Castellano C, Sosa Quesada
Y, Alvarez-Gallego M, Pascual I, Rubio-Perez I, Diaz-San Andrés B,
Tone-Villanueva F, Alonso J, Cagigas C, Castillo J, Gómez M, Martín-Parra J,
Mengual Ballester M, Pellicer Franco E, Soria Aledo V, Valero Navarro G,
Caballero Rodríguez E, Gonzalez De Chaves P, Hernandez G, Perez Alvarez A, Soto
Sanchez A, Cesar Becerra Garcia F, Guillermo Alonso Roque J, López Rodríguez
Arias F, Del Valle Ruiz SR, Sánchez De La Villa G, Compañ A, García Marín A,
Nofuentes C, Orts Micó F, Pérez Auladell V, Carrasco M, Duque Perez C,
Gálvez-Pastor S, Navarro Garcia I, Sanchez Perez A, Enjuto D, Manuel Bujalance F,
Marcelin N, Pérez M, Serrano García R, Cabrera A, de la Portilla F, Diaz-Pavon J,
Jimenez-Rodriguez R, Vazquez-Monchul J, Daza González J, Gómez Pérez R, Rivera
Castellano J, Roldán de la Rua J, Errasti Alustiza J, Fernandez L, Romeo Ramirez 
J, Sardon Ramos J, Cermeño Toral B, Alias D, Garcia-Olmo D, Guadalajara H,
Herreros M, Pacheco P, Del Castillo Díez F, Lima Pinto F, Martínez Alegre J,
Ortega I, Picardo A, Caro A, Escuder J, Feliu F, Millan M, Alos Company R, Frangi
Caregnato A, Lozoya Trujillo R, Rodríguez Carrillo R, Ruiz Carmona M, Alonso N,
Ambrona Zafra D, Amilka Ayala Candia B, Bonnin Pascual J, Pineño Flores C,
Alcazar Montero J, Angoso Clavijo M, Garcia J, Sanchez Tocino J, Gómez-Alcazar C,
Costa-Navarro D, Ferri-Romero J, Rey-Riveiro M, Romero-Simó M, Arencibia B,
Esclapez P, Frasson M, García-Granero E, Granero P, Medina Fernández FJ, Gallardo
Herrera AB, Diaz López C, Navarro Rodriguez E, Torres Tordera E, Arenal J,
Citores M, Marcos J, Sánchez J, Tinoco C, Espin E, Garcia Granero A, Jimenez
Gomez L, Sanchez Garcia J, Vallribera F, Folkesson J, Sköldberg F, Bergman K,
Borgström E, Frey J, Silfverberg A, Söderholm M, Nygren J, Segelman J, Gustafsson
D, Lagerqvist A, Papp A, Pelczar M, Abraham-Nordling M, Ahlberg M, Sjovall A,
Tengstrom J, Hagman K, Chabok A, Ezra E, Nikberg M, Smedh K, Tiselius C, Al-Naimi
N, Dao Duc M, Meyer J, Mormont M, Ris F, Prevost G, Villiger P, Hoffmann H,
Kettelhack C, Kirchhoff P, Oertli D, Weixler B, Aytac B, Leventoglu S, Mentes B, 
Yuksel O, Demirbas S, Busra Ozkan B, Selçuk Özbalci G, Sungurtekin U, Gülcü B,
Ozturk E, Yilmazlar T, Challand C, Fearnhead N, Hubbard R, Kumar S, Arthur J,
Barben C, Skaife P, Slawik S, Williams M, Zammit M, Barker J, French J,
Sarantitis I, Slawinski C, Clifford R, Eardley N, Johnson M, McFaul C,
Vimalachandran D, Allan S, Bell A, Oates E, Shanmugam V, Brigic A, Halls M,
Pucher P, Stubbs B, Agarwal T, Chopada A, Mallappa S, Pathmarajah M, Sugden C,
Brown C, Macdonald E, Mckay A, Richards J, Robertson A, Kaushal M, Patel P, Tezas
S, Touqan N, Ayaani S, Marimuthu K, Piramanayagam B, Vourvachis M, Iqbal N,
Korsgen S, Seretis C, Shariff U, Arnold S, Battersby N, Chan H, Clark E,
Fernandes R, Moran B, Bajwa A, McArthur D, Cao K, Cunha P, Pardoe H, Quddus A,
Theodoropoulou K, Bolln C, Denys G, Gillespie M, Manimaran N, Reidy J, Malik AI, 
Malik A, Pitt J, Aryal K, El-Hadi A, Lal R, Pal A, Velchuru V, Chaudhri S,
Oliveira Cunha M, Singh B, Thomas M, Bains S, Boyle K, Miller A, Norwood M, Yeung
J, Goian L, Gurjar S, Saghir W, Sengupta N, Stewart-Parker E, Bailey S, Khalil T,
Lawes D, Nikolaou S, Omar G, Church R, Muthiah B, Garrett W, Marsh P, Obeid N,
Chandler S, Coyne P, Evans M, Hunt L, Lim J, Oliphant Z, Papworth E, Weaver H,
Cuiñas Leon K, Williams G, Hernon J, Kapur S, Moosvi R, Shaikh I, Swafe L, Aslam 
M, Evans J, Ihedioha U, Kang P, Merchant J, Hompes R, Middleton R, Broomfield A, 
Crutten-Wood D, Foster J, Nash G, Akhtar M, Boshnaq M, Eldesouky S, Mangam S,
Rabie M, Ahmed J, Khan J, Ming Goh N, Shamali A, Stefan S, Nepogodiev D, Pinkney 
T, Thompson C, Amin A, Docherty J, Lim M, Walker K, Watson A, Hossack M,
Mackenzie N, Paraoan M, Alam N, Daniels I, Narang S, Pathak S, Smart N, Al-Qaddo 
A, Codd R, Rutka O, Williams G, Bronder C, Crighton I, Davies E, Raymond T,
Bookless L, Griffiths B, Plusa S, Carlson G, Harrison R, Lees N, Mason C, Quayle 
J, Branagan G, Broadhurst J, Chave H, Sleight S, Awad F, Bhangu A, Cruickshank N,
Joy H, Boereboom C, Daliya P, Dhillon A, Watson N, Watson R, Artioukh D, Gokul K,
Javed M, Kong R, Sutton J, Faiz O, Jenkins I, Leo CA, Samaranayake SF,
Warusavitarne J, Arya S, Bhan C, Mukhtar H, Oshowo A, Wilson J, Duff S, Fatayer
T, Mbuvi J, Sharma A, Cornish J, Davies L, Harries R, Morris C, Torkington J,
Knight J, Lai C, Shihab O, Tzivanakis A, Hussain A, Luke D, Padwick R, Torrance
A, Tsiamis A, Dawson P, Balfour A, Brady R, Mander J, Paterson H, Chandratreya N,
Chu H, Cutting J, Vernon S, Wai Ho C, Andreani S, Patel H, Warner M, Yan Qi Tan
J, Iqbal A, Khan A, Perrin K, Raza A, Tan S.

BACKGROUND: Anastomosis technique following right sided colonic resection is
widely variable and may affect patient outcomes. This study aimed to assess the
association between leak and anastomosis technique (stapled versus handsewn)
METHODS: This was a prospective, multicentre, international audit including
patients undergoing elective or emergency right hemicolectomy or ileo-caecal
resection operations over a two-month period in early 2015. The primary outcome
measure was the presence of anastomotic leak within 30 days of surgery, using a
pre-specified definition. Mixed effects logistic regression models were used to
assess the association between leak and anastomosis method, adjusting for
patient, disease and operative cofactors, with centre included as a random effect
variable.
RESULTS: This study included 3208 patients, of whom 78.4% (n=2515) underwent
surgery for malignancy and 11.7% (n=375) for Crohn's disease. An anastomosis was 
performed in 94.8% (n=3041) of patients, which was handsewn in 38.9% (n=1183) and
stapled in 61.1% (n=1858) cases. Patients undergoing handsewn anastomosis were
more likely to be emergency admissions (20.5% handsewn versus 12.9% stapled) and 
to undergo open surgery (54.7% versus 36.6%). The overall anastomotic leak rate
was 8.1% (245/3041), which was similar following handsewn (7.4%) and stapled
(8.5%) techniques (p=0.3). After adjustment for cofactors, the odds of a leak
were higher for stapled anastomosis (adjusted odds ratio 1.43, 95% confidence
interval 1.04-1.95, p=0.03).
DISCUSSION: Despite being used in lower risk patients, stapled anastomosis was
associated with an increased anastomotic leak rate in this observational study.
Further research is needed to define patient groups in whom a stapled anastomosis
is safe. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13646 
PMID: 28263043 


341. Curr Biol. 2017 Mar 20;27(6):807-820. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.02.003. Epub 2017
Mar 2.

Lateral Gene Transfer in the Adaptation of the Anaerobic Parasite Blastocystis to
the Gut.

Eme L(1), Gentekaki E(2), Curtis B(1), Archibald JM(3), Roger AJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University, 5850 College Street,
Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada. (2)School of Science and Human Gut Microbiome for
Health Research Unit, Mae Fah Luang University, Chiang Rai 57100, Thailand.
(3)Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University, 5850 College Street,
Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada; Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Program in
Integrated Microbial Biodiversity, 180 Dundas Street W., Toronto, ON M5G 1Z8,
Canada. (4)Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformatics,
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University, 5850
College Street, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada; Canadian Institute for Advanced
Research, Program in Integrated Microbial Biodiversity, 180 Dundas Street W.,
Toronto, ON M5G 1Z8, Canada. Electronic address: andrew.roger@dal.ca.

Blastocystis spp. are the most prevalent eukaryotic microbes found in the
intestinal tract of humans. Here we present an in-depth investigation of lateral 
gene transfer (LGT) in the genome of Blastocystis sp. subtype 1. Using rigorous
phylogeny-based methods and strict validation criteria, we show that ∼2.5% of the
genes of this organism were recently acquired by LGT. We identify LGTs both from 
prokaryote and eukaryote donors. Several transfers occurred specifically in
ancestors of a subset of Blastocystis subtypes, demonstrating that LGT is an
ongoing process. Functional predictions reveal that these genes are involved in
diverse metabolic pathways, many of which appear related to adaptation of
Blastocystis to the gut environment. Specifically, we identify genes involved in 
carbohydrate scavenging and metabolism, anaerobic amino acid and nitrogen
metabolism, oxygen-stress resistance, and pH homeostasis. A number of the
transferred genes encoded secreted proteins that are potentially involved in
infection, escaping host defense, or most likely affect the prokaryotic
microbiome and the inflammation state of the gut. We also show that Blastocystis 
subtypes differ in the nature and copy number of LGTs that could relate to
variation in their prevalence and virulence. Finally, we identified
bacterial-derived genes encoding NH3-dependent nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
(NAD) synthase in Blastocystis and other protozoan parasites, which are promising
targets for drug development. Collectively, our results suggest new avenues for
research into the role of Blastocystis in intestinal disease and unequivocally
demonstrate that LGT is an important mechanism by which eukaryotic microbes adapt
to new environments.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.02.003 
PMID: 28262486 


342. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 5. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13778. [Epub ahead of
print]

Alterations in microRNA expression profiles in inflamed and non-inflamed
ascending colon mucosae of patients with active Crohn';s disease.

Wu LY(1,)(2), Ma XP(2), Shi Y(2), Bao CH(2), Jin XM(3), Lu Y(4), Zhao JM(2), Zhou
CL(2), Chen D(5), Liu HR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Qigong Institute, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Shanghai, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Acupuncture and Immunological Effects,
Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China. (3)Stark
Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN, USA. (4)Department of Mechanics and Engineering Science, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China. (5)Novel Bioinformatics Company, Ltd., Shanghai,
China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The miRNA expression profiles of the terminal ileum, sigmoid
colon, and rectal mucosa of adult patients with active Crohn';s disease (CD) have
been previously reported. The purpose of this study was to identify dysregulated 
miRNAs in the mucosa of the ascending colon.
METHODS: Biopsy tissue samples were taken from the mucosae of inflammatory (iCD) 
or non-inflammatory (niCD) areas of the ascending colons of adult patients with
active CD. miRNA and mRNA expression profiles were detected using microarray
analyses. miRNAs and mRNAs demonstrating significant differences were validated
via quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Luciferase reporter genes were used to 
measure two miRNAs inhibition of potential target genes in human 293T cells in
vitro.
RESULTS: Compared with the HC group, the ascending colon miRNA expression
profiles revealed that 43 miRNAs were significantly up-regulated and 35 were
down-regulated in the iCD group. The mRNA expression profiles indicated that
3,370 transcripts were significantly differentially expressed in the ascending
colon, with 2169 up-regulated and 1201 down-regulated mRNAs in the iCD group, and
only 20 miRNAs demonstrated significant differential expression in the niCD
group. In contrast, nearly 100 miRNAs significantly varied between the iCD and
niCD groups. Finally, luciferase reporter gene assays showed that hsa-miR-16-1
directly regulated the human C10orf54 gene and that they were negatively
correlated.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that the differentially expressed miRNAs and
mRNAs were related to immune inflammation and intestinal flora. The data provide 
preliminary evidence that the occurrence of CD involves the inhibition of
C10orf54 expression by hsa-miR-16-1.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13778 
PMID: 28261881 


343. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1179-1192. doi: 10.1111/apt.14023. Epub
2017 Mar 6.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: use of 5-aminosalicylates and risk of
colorectal neoplasia in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Bonovas S(1), Fiorino G(1), Lytras T(2,)(3,)(4), Nikolopoulos G(5),
Peyrin-Biroulet L(6), Danese S(1,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)IBD Center, Department of Gastroenterology, Humanitas Clinical and Research
Center, Milan, Italy. (2)Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention,
Athens, Greece. (3)Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu Fabra
University, Barcelona, Spain. (4)Barcelona Institute for Global Health,
Barcelona, Spain. (5)Medical School, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(6)Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology and Inserm U954, University Hospital of 
Nancy, University of Lorraine, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France. (7)Department of
Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The relationship of 5-aminosalicylates' use with the risk of
colorectal neoplasia in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been
the focus of a growing body of research.
AIM: To investigate this association through an updated meta-analysis of
observational studies.
METHODS: PubMed, Scopus and major conference proceedings were searched up to
December 2016. The identified studies were evaluated for publication bias and
heterogeneity. Pooled relative risk (RR) estimates were calculated using
random-effect models. Detailed subgroup analyses were performed. The GRADE
approach was used to assess the quality of evidence.
RESULTS: Thirty-one independent observational studies including 2137 cases of
colorectal neoplasia (of which 76% were cancers) were incorporated. Between-study
heterogeneity was moderate, while strong suspicion of small-study effects was
raised. The overall analysis revealed a protective association between
5-aminosalicylates' use and colorectal neoplasia (RR = 0.57, 95% CI: 0.45-0.71). 
When the analysis was stratified according to study design and setting, the
association was significant in cohort (RR = 0.65, 95% CI: 0.43-0.99; n = 10) and 
case-control studies (RR = 0.53, 95% CI: 0.40-0.70; n = 21), population-based
(RR = 0.70, 95% CI: 0.52-0.94; n = 12) and hospital-based studies (RR = 0.46, 95%
CI: 0.34-0.61; n = 19). Exposure to 5-aminosalicylates was protective against
cancer (RR = 0.58, 95% CI: 0.45-0.74) and dysplasia (RR = 0.54, 95% CI:
0.35-0.84). The reduction in colorectal neoplasia risk was strong in ulcerative
colitis (RR = 0.50, 95% CI: 0.38-0.64), but nonsignificant in Crohn's disease
(RR = 0.76, 95% CI: 0.43-1.33). Mesalazine (mesalamine) use was protective
(RR = 0.70, 95% CI: 0.51-0.94) with evidence of a dose-effect. The effect of
sulfasalazine was marginally nonsignificant (RR = 0.72, 95% CI: 0.51-1.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support a potential chemopreventive role of
5-aminosalicylates in IBD. Further, high-quality prospective research is
warranted.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14023 
PMID: 28261835 


344. Front Immunol. 2017 Feb 14;8:155. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00155. eCollection
2017.

Age-Dependent Association of TNFSF15/TNFSF8 Variants and Leprosy Type 1 Reaction.

Fava VM(1), Sales-Marques C(2), Alcaïs A(3), Moraes MO(2), Schurr E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Infectious Diseases and Immunity in Global Health, Research
Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada; The
McGill International TB Centre, Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada. (2)Laboratório de Hanseníase, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz,
FIOCRUZ , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil. (3)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious 
Diseases, Necker Branch, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche
Médicale U1163, Paris, France; Imagine Institute, University Paris Descartes,
Paris, France; Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases,
Rockefeller Branch, Rockefeller University, New York, NY, USA. (4)Program in
Infectious Diseases and Immunity in Global Health, Research Institute of the
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada; The McGill International
TB Centre, Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada;
Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.

A current major challenge in leprosy control is the prevention of permanent
disabilities. Host pathological inflammatory responses termed type 1 reaction
(T1R) are a leading cause of nerve damage for leprosy patients. The environmental
or inherited factors that predispose leprosy cases to undergo T1R are not known. 
However, studies have shown an important contribution of host genetics for
susceptibility to T1R. We have previously identified variants encompassing the
TNFSF15/TNFSF8 genes as T1R risk factors in a Vietnamese sample and replicated
this association in a Brazilian sample. However, we failed to validate in
Brazilian patients the strong association of TNFSF15/TNFSF8 markers rs6478108 and
rs7863183 with T1R that we had observed in Vietnamese patients. Here, we
investigated if the lack of validation of these variants was due to age-dependent
effects on association using four independent population samples, two from Brazil
and two from Vietnam. In the combined analysis across the four samples, we
observed a strong association of the TNFSF15/TNFSF8 variants rs6478108,
rs7863183, and rs3181348 with T1R (pcombined = 1.5E-05, pcombined = 1.8E-05, and 
pcombined = 6.5E-06, respectively). However, the association of rs6478108 with
T1R was more pronounced in leprosy cases under 30 years of age compared to the
global sample [odds ratio (OR) = 1.95, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.54-2.46, 
pcombined = 2.5E-08 versus OR = 1.46, 95% CI = 1.23-1.73, pcombined = 1.5E-05]. A
multivariable analysis indicated that the association of rs6478108 with T1R was
independent of either rs7863183 or rs3181348. These three variants are known
regulators of the TNFSF8 gene transcription level in multiple tissues. The age
dependency of association of rs6478108 and T1R suggests that the genetic control 
of gene expression varies across the human life span.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00155 
PMCID: PMC5306391
PMID: 28261213 


345. Postepy Dermatol Alergol. 2017 Feb;34(1):52-59. doi: 10.5114/ada.2017.65622. Epub
2017 Feb 7.

Eosinophilic colitis in children.

Grzybowska-Chlebowczyk U(1), Horowska-Ziaja S(2), Kajor M(3), Więcek S(1),
Chlebowczyk W(4), Woś H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Medical University of Silesia,
Katowice, Poland. (2)Gastroenterology Unit, Upper-Silesian Child Health Care
Centre, Katowice, Poland. (3)Department of Pathomorphology, School of Medicine,
Medical University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland. (4)Department of Nursing and
Social Medical Problems, School of Medicine, Medical University of Silesia,
Katowice, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Eosinophilic colitis, which is a rare form of eosinophilic
gastrointestinal diseases, occurs as primary and secondary allergic eosinophilic 
colitis of the gastrointestinal tract infection, inflammatory bowel disease,
celiac disease, and vasculitis. The diagnosis is based on a significant amount of
eosinophils in the inflammatory infiltrate of the colon wall.
AIM: To analyze the clinical picture taking into account comorbidities and
endoscopic picture in children with eosinophilic colitis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The test group consisted of 43 children, the average age - 
12.1 years diagnosed with eosinophilic colitis (according to the Whitington
scale) hospitalized in the Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Pediatrics of the
Medical University of Silesia in Katowice. Testing for food allergies, celiac
disease, inflammatory bowel disease, gastrointestinal diseases and parasitic
diseases was performed in the group of children and the analysis concerned the
intensity of eosinophilic infiltration of the colon mucosa with the severity of
clinical symptoms, endoscopic picture, the presence of inflammatory bowel
disease, and food allergy.
RESULTS: Half of the tested children suffered from isolated eosinophilic colitis 
but the rest of them had eosinophilic infiltrate with inflammatory bowel disease 
more often, however, the Crohn's disease. The endoscopic image was
uncharacteristic, and grade III in the Whitington scale was predominant in the
histopathological examination, in most cases located in the entire large
intestine. The higher level of total IgE was found in less than half of the
patients and it did not correlate with the severity of eosinophilic infiltration.
It was shown that the severity of eosinophilic infiltration correlated with
exacerbation of clinical symptoms, endoscopic image, and the presence of
inflammatory bowel disease. The higher level of antibodies of ASCA and ANCA was
found in approximately 20% of the children with isolated eosinophilic colitis and
63% of children with Crohn's disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher concentration of total IgE in less than half of the
patients with eosinophilic colitis indicates the need for improving allergy
diagnosis also in terms of IgE-independent allergy. The presence of higher levels
of antibodies of ASCA and ANCA in some of the patients with isolated eosinophilic
colitis indicates the need for further observation for the occurrence of
inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.5114/ada.2017.65622 
PMCID: PMC5329107
PMID: 28261032 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


346. Immune Netw. 2017 Feb;17(1):25-40. doi: 10.4110/in.2017.17.1.25. Epub 2017 Feb
23.

Pathogenesis of Inflammatory Bowel Disease and Recent Advances in Biologic
Therapies.

Kim DH(1), Cheon JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Disease Center, CHA Bundang Hospital, CHA University, Seongnam
13496, Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine and Institute of
Gastroenterology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 03722, Korea.;
Severance Biomedical Science Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine,
Seoul 03722, Korea.; Brain Korea 21 PLUS Project for Medical Science, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul 03722, Korea.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic intestinal inflammatory disorder
with an unknown etiology. IBD is composed of two different disease entities:
Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). IBD has been thought to be
idiopathic but has two main attributable causes that include genetic and
environmental factors. The gastrointestinal tract in which this disease occurs is
central to the immune system, and the innate and the adaptive immune systems are 
balanced in complex interactions with intestinal microbes under homeostatic
conditions. However, in IBD, this homeostasis is disrupted and uncontrolled
intestinal inflammation is perpetuated. Recently, the pathogenesis of IBD has
become better understood owing to advances in genetic and immunologic technology.
Moreover, new therapeutic strategies are now being implemented that accurately
target the pathogenesis of IBD. Beyond conventional immunesuppressive therapy,
the development of biological agents that target specific disease mechanisms has 
resulted in more frequent and deeper remission in IBD patients, with mucosal
healing as a treatment goal of therapy. Future novel biologics should overcome
the limitations of current therapies and ensure that individual patients can be
treated with optimal drugs that are safe and precisely target IBD.

DOI: 10.4110/in.2017.17.1.25 
PMCID: PMC5334120
PMID: 28261018 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: All authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.


347. Immune Netw. 2017 Feb;17(1):1-12. doi: 10.4110/in.2017.17.1.1. Epub 2017 Feb 23.

Host-microbial Cross-talk in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Nagao-Kitamoto H(1), Kamada N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

A vast community of commensal microorganisms, commonly referred to as the gut
microbiota, colonizes the gastrointestinal tract (GI). The involvement of the gut
microbiota in the maintenance of the gut ecosystem is two-fold: it educates host 
immune cells and protects the host from pathogens. However, when healthy
microbial composition and function are disrupted (dysbiosis), the dysbiotic gut
microbiota can trigger the initiation and development of various GI diseases,
including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). IBD, primarily includes ulcerative
colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), is a major global public health problem
affecting over 1 million patients in the United States alone. Accumulating
evidence suggests that various environmental and genetic factors contribute to
the pathogenesis of IBD. In particular, the gut microbiota is a key factor
associated with the triggering and presentation of disease. Gut dysbiosis in
patients with IBD is defined as a reduction of beneficial commensal bacteria and 
an enrichment of potentially harmful commensal bacteria (pathobionts). However,
as of now it is largely unknown whether gut dysbiosis is a cause or a consequence
of IBD. Recent technological advances have made it possible to address this
question and investigate the functional impact of dysbiotic microbiota on IBD. In
this review, we will discuss the recent advances in the field, focusing on
host-microbial cross-talk in IBD.

DOI: 10.4110/in.2017.17.1.1 
PMCID: PMC5334117
PMID: 28261015 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors have no
financial conflict of interest.


348. Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai Zasshi. 2017;114(3):445-449. doi:
10.11405/nisshoshi.114.445.

A case of Turner syndrome (46XXp-/45X) complicated with Crohn's disease after
hormone therapy.

Ihara Y(1), Hizawa K, Fujita K, Iida M, Washio E, Kai T, Nitahata T, Esaki M,
Iida M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Kyushu Central Hospital.

A 19-year-old woman, who had been receiving hormone replacement therapy for 13
months before the diagnosis of mosaic Turner syndrome (46XXp-/45X), developed
Crohn's colitis and erythema nodosum of the lower legs. Colonoscopy revealed an
anal fistula and the presence of deep longitudinal ulcers with cobblestoning in
the colorectum. Therapy with prednisolone and adalimumab was effective for the
intestinal and skin lesions. To date, all seven case reports of Turner syndrome
in Japan have also developed Crohn's disease after hormone therapy, suggesting a 
possible association of sex hormones in the pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.11405/nisshoshi.114.445 
PMID: 28260712 


349. Mol Med Rep. 2017 Apr;15(4):2267-2272. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2017.6250. Epub 2017 Feb 
28.

Comprehensive bioinformatics analyses of Crohn's disease.

Zhou Y(1), Zhan C(2), Huang Y(1), Liu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai
200032, P.R. China. (2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200032, P.R. China.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory disease with increasing
incidence and prevalence worldwide. In previous years, the accumulation of
microarray data has provided us an approach to obtain further insight into CD. In
the present study, the microarray data of CD was comprehensively analyzed using
multiple bioinformatics methods, and the pathobiological process of the disease
was examined. Gene expression data from colon tissues of patients with CD were
obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database; following which
differentially expressed genes were identified between CD and control sample
groups. Subsequently, Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes
analyses were performed to investigate which functions and pathways in which the 
differentially expressed genes enriched. TargetScan and miRDB databases were then
used to predict which microRNAs (miRNAs) regulated the differentially expressed
genes. As a result, a total of 432 differentially expressed genes, including 229 
upregulated and 203 downregulated genes, including matrix metallopeptidase 3 and 
glutathione S‑transferase α1, were identified in CD samples. These differentially
expressed genes were significantly involved in regulation of the inflammatory
response, innate immune response, cell migration, extracellular matrix
organization, Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription
signaling pathway, and cytokine‑cytokine receptor interaction. The miRNA-gene
network showed that miR‑149‑3p and miR‑4447 regulated the most differentially
expressed genes. These findings extend current understanding of the mechanisms
underlying CD, and the differentially expressed genes and regulator miRNAs
identified may be used as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for CD.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2017.6250 
PMID: 28260036 


350. Lancet. 2017 Mar 1. pii: S0140-6736(17)30634-7. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30634-7. [Epub ahead of print]

RISK stratification in paediatric Crohn's disease.

Arijs I(1), Cleynen I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Life Sciences, Hasselt University, Campus Diepenbeek, 
Agoralaan-Gebouw D, Diepenbeek 3590, Hasselt, Belgium; Jessa Hospital, Hasselt,
Belgium; Translational Research in Gastrointestinal Disorders (TARGID),
Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
Electronic address: ingrid.arijs@uhasselt.be. (2)Laboratory for Complex Genetics,
Department of Human Genetics, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30634-7 
PMID: 28259485 


351. Lancet. 2017 Mar 1. pii: S0140-6736(17)30317-3. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30317-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Prediction of complicated disease course for children newly diagnosed with
Crohn's disease: a multicentre inception cohort study.

Kugathasan S(1), Denson LA(2), Walters TD(3), Kim MO(4), Marigorta UM(5),
Schirmer M(6), Mondal K(7), Liu C(4), Griffiths A(3), Noe JD(8), Crandall WV(9), 
Snapper S(10), Rabizadeh S(11), Rosh JR(12), Shapiro JM(13), Guthery S(14), Mack 
DR(15), Kellermayer R(16), Kappelman MD(17), Steiner S(18), Moulton DE(19), Keljo
D(20), Cohen S(21), Oliva-Hemker M(22), Heyman MB(23), Otley AR(24), Baker
SS(25), Evans JS(26), Kirschner BS(27), Patel AS(28), Ziring D(29), Trapnell
BC(30), Sylvester FA(17), Stephens MC(31), Baldassano RN(32), Markowitz JF(33),
Cho J(34), Xavier RJ(35), Huttenhower C(6), Aronow BJ(36), Gibson G(5), Hyams
JS(37), Dubinsky MC(34).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, GA, USA; Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA. Electronic 
address: skugath@emory.edu. (2)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology,
Hepatology, and Nutrition, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH, USA. (3)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and
Nutrition, Department of Pediatrics, The Hospital for Sick Children, University
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (4)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology,
Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. (5)Center for
Integrative Genomics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. (6)The
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA; Department of
Biostatistics, Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, GA, USA. (8)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and
Nutrition, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA. (9)Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Ohio State University
College of Medicine, Columbus, OH, USA. (10)Department of Gastroenterology and
Nutrition, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. (11)Department of
Pediatrics, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (12)Department of 
Pediatrics, Goryeb Children's Hospital, Morristown, NJ, USA. (13)Department of
Pediatrics, Hasbro Children's Hospital, Providence, RI, USA. (14)Department of
Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. (15)Department of
Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario IBD Centre and University of
Ottawa, ON, Canada. (16)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX, USA. (17)Department of
Pediatrics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(18)Department of Pediatrics, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN, USA. (19)Department of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt University School
of Medicine, Nashville, TN, USA. (20)Department of Gastroenterology, Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (21)Children's Healthcare of
Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA; Children's Center for Digestive Health Care, Atlanta, 
GA, USA. (22)Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (23)Department of Pediatrics, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (24)Department of Pediatrics, 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. (25)Department of Digestive Diseases
and Nutrition Center, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA. (26)Department of 
Pediatrics, Nemours Children's Specialty Care, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(27)Department of Pediatrics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(28)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, TX, USA. (29)Department of Pediatrics, UCLA David Geffen School of
Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (30)Division of Pulmonary Biology, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. (31)Department of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. (32)Department of
Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (33)Department of 
Pediatrics, Northwell Health, New York, NY, USA. (34)Department of Pediatrics,
Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY, USA. (35)The Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA; Center for Computational and Integrative Biology,
Gastrointestinal Unit and Center for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Center for Microbiome
Informatics and Therapeutics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
MA, USA. (36)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital
Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. (37)Division of Digestive Diseases,
Hepatology, and Nutrition, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Hartford, CT,
USA.

BACKGROUND: Stricturing and penetrating complications account for substantial
morbidity and health-care costs in paediatric and adult onset Crohn's disease.
Validated models to predict risk for complications are not available, and the
effect of treatment on risk is unknown.
METHODS: We did a prospective inception cohort study of paediatric patients with 
newly diagnosed Crohn's disease at 28 sites in the USA and Canada. Genotypes,
antimicrobial serologies, ileal gene expression, and ileal, rectal, and faecal
microbiota were assessed. A competing-risk model for disease complications was
derived and validated in independent groups. Propensity-score matching tested the
effect of anti-tumour necrosis factor α (TNFα) therapy exposure within 90 days of
diagnosis on complication risk.
FINDINGS: Between Nov 1, 2008, and June 30, 2012, we enrolled 913 patients, 78
(9%) of whom experienced Crohn's disease complications. The validated
competing-risk model included age, race, disease location, and antimicrobial
serologies and provided a sensitivity of 66% (95% CI 51-82) and specificity of
63% (55-71), with a negative predictive value of 95% (94-97). Patients who
received early anti-TNFα therapy were less likely to have penetrating
complications (hazard ratio [HR] 0·30, 95% CI 0·10-0·89; p=0·0296) but not
stricturing complication (1·13, 0·51-2·51; 0·76) than were those who did not
receive early anti-TNFα therapy. Ruminococcus was implicated in stricturing
complications and Veillonella in penetrating complications. Ileal genes
controlling extracellular matrix production were upregulated at diagnosis, and
this gene signature was associated with stricturing in the risk model (HR 1·70,
95% CI 1·12-2·57; p=0·0120). When this gene signature was included, the model's
specificity improved to 71%.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings support the usefulness of risk stratification of
paediatric patients with Crohn's disease at diagnosis, and selection of anti-TNFα
therapy.
FUNDING: Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Research Foundation Digestive Health Center.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30317-3 
PMID: 28259484 


352. ChemMedChem. 2017 Mar 3. doi: 10.1002/cmdc.201700061. [Epub ahead of print]

Physiochemical Tuning of Potent Escherichia coli Anti-Adhesives by
Microencapsulation and Methylene Homologation.

Alvarez Dorta D(1), Chalopin T(1), Sivignon A(2), de Ruyck J(3), Dumych TI(4),
Bilyy RO(4), Deniaud D(1), Barnich N(2), Bouckaert J(3), Gouin SG(1).

Author information: 
(1)LUNAM Université, CEISAM, Chimie Et Interdisciplinarité, Synthèse, Analyse,
Modélisation, UMR CNRS 6230, UFR des Sciences et des Techniques, 2 rue de la
Houssinière, BP 92208, 44322, Nantes Cedex 3, France. (2)Université Clermont
Auvergne, Inserm U1071, M2iSH, USC-INRA 2018, 63000, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(3)Université Lille, Unité de Glycobiologie Structurale et Fonctionnelle, CNRS
UMR8576 UGSF, FRABio FR3688, 59000, Lille, France. (4)Danylo Halytsky Lviv
National Medical University, Pekarska Str. 69, 79010, Lviv, Ukraine.

Thiazolylaminomannosides (TazMan) are FimH antagonists with anti-adhesive
potential against adherent-invasive Escherichia coli (AIEC) promoting gut
inflammation in patients with Crohn's disease. The lead TazMan is highly potent
in vitro, but shows limited in vivo efficiency, probably due to low pH stability 
and water solubility. We recently developed a second generation of stable TazMan,
but the anti-adhesive effect was lower than the first. Herein we report a
co-crystal structure of the lead TazMan in FimH, revealing that the anomeric NH
group and the second thiazole moiety provide a positive hydrogen bonding
interaction with a trapped water molecule, and π-stacking with Tyr48 of FimH,
respectively. Consequently, we developed NeoTazMan homologated with a methylene
group for low-pH and mannosidase stability with a conserved NH group and bearing 
various heterocyclic aglycones. Microencapsulation of the lead NeoTazMan in
γ-cyclodextrin dramatically improved water solubility without disrupting the
affinity for FimH or the anti-adhesive effect against AIEC isolated from patients
with Crohn's disease.

© 2017 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.201700061 
PMID: 28257558 


353. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2017 Mar;109(3):219-220.

Accumulation of mesalazine pills in the medium ileum in a patient with Crohn´s
disease.

Martínez Huertas C(1), Garcia-Villanova Ruiz P(2), Pozo Sánchez J(2), Dávila
Arias C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Radiodiagnóstico, Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Granada, España.
(2)Radiodiagnóstico, Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Granada.

Crohn´s disease is an inflammatory disease that can involve any portion of the
gastrointestinal tract, although terminal ileum is the most commonly affected
portion. It is characterized by a transmural and discontinuous distribution
pattern, with alternating periods of active disease and remission. We present the
case of a 23-year-old patient diagnosed with Crohn´s disease, in treatment with
extended release Mesalazine and corticoids. The CT Enterography showed activity
signs and a great dilatation of medium ileum with lots of Mesalazine pills
accumulated inside. Pill accumulation occurred because of stenosis, which did not
let the pills at this level progress to distal ileum, and be absorbed.


PMID: 28256148 


354. Case Rep Pathol. 2017;2017:2758769. doi: 10.1155/2017/2758769. Epub 2017 Jan 31.

Newly Diagnosed Colonic Adenocarcinoma: The Presenting Sign in a Young Woman with
Undiagnosed Crohn's Disease in the Absence of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis and 
a Normal Microsatellite Instability Profile.

Lowenthal BM(1), Tipps AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Diego, 200 West Arbor
Drive, San Diego, CA 92103, USA.

Ulcerative colitis has long been linked with an increased risk for colonic
adenocarcinoma, whereas Crohn's disease (CD) has recently been reported to pose a
similar increased risk. We report a 33-year-old healthy female with no family
history who presented with abdominal pain and a colon mass. Histopathology
revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma extending through the
muscularis propria with metastatic lymph nodes and intact mismatch repair
proteins by immunohistochemical expression and gene sequencing. The nonneoplastic
grossly uninvolved background mucosa showed marked crypt distortion, crypt
abscesses, CD-like lymphoid hyperplasia, transmural inflammation, and reactive
epithelial atypia. Additional patient questioning revealed frequent loose stools 
since she was a teenager leading to diagnosis of a previously undiagnosed CD
without primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). The adenocarcinoma is suspected to 
be related to the underlying CD. Newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma in a young female
as the presenting sign for CD in the absence of PSC is extremely rare.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/2758769 
PMCID: PMC5306990
PMID: 28255489 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interests regarding the publication of this paper.


355. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2017 Feb 17;11:277-281. doi: 10.2147/PPA.S123073.
eCollection 2017.

Forming a support group for people affected by inflammatory bowel disease.

Swarup N(1), Nayak S(2), Lee J(2), Pai Raikar S(2), Hou D(2), Sockalingam S(2),
Lee KJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Crohn's and Colitis Society of Singapore (CCSS), The Arcadia. (2)QuintilesIMS,
Science Park One, Singapore.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) - primarily Crohn's disease and ulcerative
colitis - is a debilitating lifelong condition with significant health and
economic costs. From diagnosis to management, IBD can cause huge psychosocial
concerns to patients and their caregivers. This study reports an experience of a 
Crohn's patient, leading to the formation of the first IBD patient support group 
in Singapore and how this group has evolved in the last 4 years in supporting
other IBD patients. IBD patient advocacy and/or support groups facilitate open
conversations on patients' fears, concerns, preferences and needs, and may
potentially improve disease knowledge and quality of life for individuals with
the condition or their families.

DOI: 10.2147/PPA.S123073 
PMCID: PMC5322812
PMID: 28255233 

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The primary author (Nidhi Swarup)
works on a voluntary basis for a support group for patients diagnosed with
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis in Singapore. The coauthors work for
QuintilesIMS, a provider of clinical trial services for biopharmaceutical
companies worldwide. The authors report no other conflicts of interest in this
work.


356. Dig Liver Dis. 2017 Jan 25. pii: S1590-8658(17)30187-1. doi:
10.1016/j.dld.2017.01.161. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs in inflammatory bowel disease:
Clinical practice guidelines of the Italian Group for the Study of Inflammatory
Bowel Disease.

Gionchetti P(1), Rizzello F(2), Annese V(3), Armuzzi A(4), Biancone L(5),
Castiglione F(6), Comberlato M(7), Cottone M(8), Danese S(9), Daperno M(10),
D'Incà R(11), Fries W(12), Kohn A(13), Orlando A(8), Papi C(14), Vecchi M(15),
Ardizzone S(16); Italian Group for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease
(IG-IBD).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, IBD Unit, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: Paolo.gionchetti@unibo.it. (2)Department of
Medical and Surgical Sciences, IBD Unit, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)AOU Gastroenterology, Careggi University Hospital, Florence, Italy. (4)IBD
Unit Complesso Integrato Columbus-Gemelli Hospital Catholic University
Foundation, Rome, Italy. (5)University "Tor Vergata", Department of Systems
Medicine, Rome, Italy. (6)Gastroenterology Unit, Federico II University, Naples, 
Italy. (7)Gastrointestinal Unit, Ospedale Central Hospital, Bolzano, Italy.
(8)Department of Medicine, Pneumology and Nutrition Clinic, V. Cervello Hospital,
Ospedali Riuniti Villa Sofia-Cervello University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(9)IBD Center, Humanitas Clinical and Research Centre, Milan, Italy.
(10)Gastroenterology Unit, A.O. Ordine Mauriziano Hospital, Turin, Italy.
(11)Department of Surgical and Gastroenterological Sciences, University of Padua,
Padua, Italy. (12)Clinical Unit for Chronic Bowel Disorders, Department of
Internal Medicine, IBD Unit Messina, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(13)Department of Gastroenterology, San Camillo-Forlanini Hospital, Rome, Italy. 
(14)Gastroenterology Unit, San Filippo Neri Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(15)Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Unit, IRCCS San Donato
Hospital, San Donato Milanese, Italy. (16)Gastroenterology and Digestive
Endoscopy, ASST Fatebenefratelli Sacco, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

The two main forms of intestinal bowel disease, namely ulcerative colitis and
Crohn's disease, are not curable but can be controlled by various medical
therapies. The Italian Group for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IG-IBD)
has prepared clinical practice guidelines to help physicians prescribe
corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for these patients. The guidelines
consider therapies that induce remission in patients with active disease as well 
as treatment regimens that maintain remission. These guidelines complement
already existing guidelines from IG-IBD on the use of biological drugs in
patients with inflammatory bowel diseases.

Copyright © 2017 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2017.01.161 
PMID: 28254463 


357. PLoS Pathog. 2017 Mar 2;13(3):e1006177. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006177.
eCollection 2017.

Nod2: The intestinal gate keeper.

Al Nabhani Z(1,)(2), Dietrich G(3), Hugot JP(1,)(2,)(4), Barreau F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Inflamex, Université Paris-Diderot Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris,
France. (2)INSERM, UMR 1149, Paris, France. (3)IRSD, Université de Toulouse,
INSERM, INRA, ENVT, UPS, Toulouse, France. (4)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de
Paris, Hôpital Robert Debré, Paris, France.

Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2) is an intracellular pattern
recognition receptor that senses bacterial peptidoglycan (PGN)-conserved motifs
in cytosol and stimulates host immune response. The association of NOD2 mutations
with a number of inflammatory pathologies, including Crohn disease (CD),
Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and Blau syndrome, highlights its pivotal role 
in host-pathogen interactions and inflammatory response. Stimulation of NOD2 by
its ligand (muramyl dipeptide) activates pro-inflammatory pathways such as
nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and
Caspase-1. A loss of NOD2 function may result in a failure in the control of
microbial infection, thereby initiating systemic responses and aberrant
inflammation. Because the ligand of Nod2 is conserved in both gram-positive and
gram-negative bacteria, NOD2 detects a wide variety of microorganisms.
Furthermore, current literature evidences that NOD2 is also able to control
viruses' and parasites' infections. In this review, we present and discuss recent
developments about the role of NOD2 in shaping the gut commensal microbiota and
pathogens, including bacteria, viruses, and parasites, and the mechanisms by
which Nod2 mutations participate in disease occurrence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006177 
PMCID: PMC5333895
PMID: 28253332 


358. J Dairy Res. 2017 Feb;84(1):89-91. doi: 10.1017/S0022029916000820.

Investigation of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in Australian commercial milk 
using qPCR.

Adhikari S(1), Caro Tohme T(1), Whiley H(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of the Environment,Health and the Environment,Flinders University,GPO
BOX 2100,Adelaide 5001,Australia.

This technical research communication describes the first study to use
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) to investigate the presence of
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in Australian pasteurised milk. MAC is the most
common NTM responsible for human illnesses and includes M. avium subspecies
paratuberculosis (MAP). MAC is a causative agent of lymphadenitis in children,
with contaminated food and water considered as a likely source. As such the
presence of MAC in milk would have public health significance. MAP has been
linked to Crohn's disease and is also the causative agent of Johne's disease in
cattle. Previous studies have detected MAP in pasteurised milk from Brazil,
India, Czech Republic, USA, Argentina, UK, Iran, Ireland and the United Kingdom. 
This study investigated a total of 180 commercially available Australian
pasteurised milk samples which were tested for MAC DNA in triplicate using PCR.
All samples were negative for MAC DNA. An additional 14 milk samples were tested,
incubated for 3 weeks at 37 °C to potentially increase the concentration of any
viable MAC that may be present and then retested. All samples were again negative
for MAC DNA. This could be due to concentrations below the limit of detection,
limited sample size or could be reflective of the Australian biosecurity control 
protocols and surveillance of Johne's disease in ruminant animals.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022029916000820 
PMID: 28252353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1232-1243. doi: 10.1111/apt.14016. Epub
2017 Mar 2.

Clinical, endoscopic and radiographic outcomes with ustekinumab in
medically-refractory Crohn's disease: real world experience from a multicentre
cohort.

Ma C(1), Fedorak RN(2), Kaplan GG(1), Dieleman LA(2), Devlin SM(1), Stern N(2),
Kroeker KI(2), Seow CH(1), Leung Y(3), Novak KL(1), Halloran BP(2), Huang VW(2), 
Wong K(2), Blustein PK(1), Ghosh S(4), Panaccione R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada. (3)Division of Gastroenterology, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (4)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Ustekinumab is a monoclonal antibody targeting interleukins-12 and
-23, with efficacy in Crohn's disease (CD) demonstrated in clinical trials.
AIM: To assess the real-world clinical, endoscopic and radiographic response and 
remission outcomes achieved with ustekinumab in medically-refractory CD.
METHODS: A retrospective multicentre cohort study was performed on CD patients
receiving ustekinumab between 2011 and 2016. The primary outcome was achievement 
of clinical and objective steroid-free response and remission at 3, 6 and 12
months. Clinical response and remission were defined by reduction in Harvey
Bradshaw Index (HBI) of ≥3 points and an HBI ≤4 points respectively. Objective
response was defined by improvement in endoscopic or radiographic CD, as assessed
by ileocolonoscopy, contrast-enhanced ultrasound or CT/MR enterography. Objective
remission was defined by endoscopic mucosal healing or complete resolution of
inflammatory parameters on radiographic assessment.
RESULTS: A total of 167 CD patients were treated with ustekinumab. 95.2%
(159/167) previously failed anti-TNF therapy. Median follow-up was 45.6 weeks
(IQR: 24.4-88.9). At 3 months, clinical response was achieved in 38.9% (65/167)
and remission in 15.0% (25/167) of patients. At 6 months, clinical response was
achieved in 60.3% (91/151) and remission in 25.2% (38/151) of patients. At 12
months, clinical response was achieved in 59.5% (66/111) and remission in 27.9%
(31/111) of patients. Endoscopic or radiographic response was demonstrated in
54.5% (67/123) at 6 months and 55.8% (48/86) of patients at 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Ustekinumab is an effective therapeutic option for inducing and
maintaining clinical, endoscopic and radiographic response in patients with
Crohn's disease failing anti-TNF therapy.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14016 
PMID: 28252210 


360. Curr Protoc Mouse Biol. 2017 Mar 2;7(1):13-28. doi: 10.1002/cpmo.20.

Exploration of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Mice: Chemically Induced Murine
Models of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD).

Gadaleta RM(1,)(2,)(3), Garcia-Irigoyen O(1), Moschetta A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Interdisciplinary Department of Medicine, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Hammersmith Hospital, Imperial College,
London, United Kingdom. (3)Istituto Nazionale Biostrutture e Biosistemi (INBB),
Rome, Italy.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic multifactorial inflammatory
disorder characterized by periods of activation and remission of intestinal
inflammation, with potentially severe complications, that can lead to mortality. 
Experimental animal models of intestinal inflammation are crucial for
understanding the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis
(UC), the two major human IBD phenotypes. Animal models have been instrumental in
unveiling the molecular background of IBD, and although a single model is not
able to capture the complexity of this disease, each of them provided valuable
insight into its different aspects. Chemically induced models of intestinal
inflammation, mainly dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)- and
2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis, are widely used. This 
article describes DSS- and TNBS-induced colitis models and their relevance to IBD
pathophysiology and pre-clinical therapeutic management. © 2017 by John Wiley &
Sons, Inc.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cpmo.20 
PMID: 28252200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. J Dig Dis. 2017 Mar 2. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.12461. [Epub ahead of print]

Risk factors and clinical outcome of clostridium difficile infection in patients 
with IBD:a Chinese single-center retrospective study of 260 cases.

Gu Y(1), Zhang MC(1), Sun J(1), Lv K(2), Zhong J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, RuiJin Hospital, affiliate to Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, School of Medicine, China, 200025. (2)Department of Colorectal
Surgery, RuiJin Hospital, affiliate to Shanghai Jiao Tong University, School of
Medicine, China, 200025.

AIM: Clostridium difficile infection(CDI) may lead to poor outcome in
inflammatory bowel disease(IBD) patients. This study was designed to investigate 
the cumulative incidence, risk factors, and outcome of CDI in patients with IBD
in one Chinese single center.
METHODS: Clinical features and endoscopic profiles of consecutive IBD patients
from RuiJin Hospital between January 2013 and December 2015 were analyzed
retrospectively. CDI was diagnosed based on the positive polymerase chain
reaction (PCR)-based stool test.
RESULTS: A total of 260 patients with IBD were enrolled, among whom 176 patients 
with Crohn's disease (CD) and 84 with ulcerative colitis (UC). Thirteen patients 
(5.0%) were diagnosed with CDI. The incidence of infection was 4.0% in CD (n = 7)
and 7.1% in UC (n = 6) respectively.The endoscopic feature of pseudomembrane was 
found in 4 IBD-CDI patients (4/12,33.3%), and pseudomembrane and deep ulcer were 
significantly correlated with CDI (p < 0.001 and p = 0.006).There was a trend
that anemia (Hb < 10 g/dL) might be associated with CDI(p = 0.043,OR 3.48,95% CI 
1.04-11.61).Patients in CDI group showed more risk of developing abdominal
abscess than those in non-CDI group(p = 0.003,OR 6.09,95% CI 1.8-15.2).
CONCLUSIONS: PCR-based fecal screening for CDI should be performed in those IBD
patients. Anemia may be an important risk factor of CDI in IBD. For patients with
CDI, antibiotics should be administered promptly to prevent abdominal abscess.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.12461 
PMID: 28251812 


362. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Mar;19(3):302-303. doi: 10.1111/codi.13616.

Minimally invasive approach to complicated Crohn's disease in four different
cases - a video vignette.

Kessler HP(1), Aydinli HH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease and Surgery Institute,
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13616 
PMID: 28251790 


363. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 2. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13775. [Epub ahead of
print]

Influence of Age at Diagnosis on the Clinical Characteristics of Crohn's Disease 
in Korea: Results from the CONNECT study.

Hwang SW(1,)(2), Kim JH(1), Im JP(1), Ye BD(2), Koo HS(3), Huh KC(3), Cheon
JH(4), Kim YS(5), Kim YH(6), Han DS(7), Kim WH(4), Kim JS(1); Crohn's disease
clinical network and cohort (CONNECT) study.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Liver Research Institute, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Konyang University College of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea. (4)Department
of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea. (6)Department of Internal Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (7)Department of Internal Medicine, Hanyang University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The present study evaluated the clinical characteristics of
Korean patients with Crohn's disease (CD) according to their age at diagnosis in 
a nationwide multicenter cohort study.
METHODS: A total of 1,224 patients diagnosed with CD between 1982 and 2008 in 32 
hospitals were included, and age at diagnosis was categorized as ≤ 16 (G1), 17-40
(G2), 41-59 (G3) and ≥ 60 (G4) years old. The baseline characteristics,
medication, and intestinal resection were compared according to the age at
diagnosis.
RESULTS: The number of patients in each age group was 155 (G1; 12.7%), 919 (G2;
75.1%), 120 (G3; 9.8%) and 30 (G4; 2.5%). The frequencies of ileocolonic disease 
in the late adult onset and elderly onset groups were lower than those in the
other groups (P < 0.001). The cumulative probabilities of thiopurine and anti-TNF
use in late adult onset and elderly onset groups were significantly reduced
compared with those of the other groups (P < 0.01). However, the risk of the
first intestinal resection was not different among the age groups. The ileal
location (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.59; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.11-2.27),
complicated behavior (HR: 3.35; 95% CI: 2.63-4.27), and early thiopurine use (HR:
0.27; 95% CI: 0.17-0.43) were associated with the first intestinal resection,
whereas the age at diagnosis was not a risk factor.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly onset CD may be related to favorable outcomes in Korea.
Thus, the heterogeneity of this disease should be considered when developing a
tailored strategy for the treatment of CD.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13775 
PMID: 28251684 


364. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Apr;62(4):874-878. doi: 10.1007/s10620-017-4505-2.

Avoiding "Rash" Conclusions: Challenge of IgA Vasculitis in Adults.

Hu S(1), Birg A(2), Hovaida M(3), Gavin MW(3), McCarthy D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, 
Albuquerque, NM, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University 
of New Mexico School of Medicine, 1 University of New Mexico, MSC10-5550,
Albuquerque, NM, 87131, USA. abirg@salud.unm.edu. (3)Division of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, 1 University of New 
Mexico, MSC10-5550, Albuquerque, NM, 87131, USA.

IgA vasculitis is primarily a pediatric disease that is rarely encountered in
adults. With adults, gastrointestinal manifestations are quite common, yet are
nonspecific and may overlap with other diseases, particularly Crohn's disease,
which can make the diagnosis a challenging task. Treatment is controversial given
the disease course is usually self-limited with few serious complications. We
present a case of IgA vasculitis in an adult patient with limited extraintestinal
findings illustrating the complexity of arriving at the correct diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-017-4505-2 
PMID: 28251502 


365. IUCrJ. 2017 Jan 1;4(Pt 1):7-23. doi: 10.1107/S2052252516016675. eCollection 2017.

Mutation of Tyr137 of the universal Escherichia coli fimbrial adhesin FimH
relaxes the tyrosine gate prior to mannose binding.

Rabbani S(1), Krammer EM(2), Roos G(2), Zalewski A(1), Preston R(1), Eid S(1),
Zihlmann P(1), Prévost M(3), Lensink MF(4), Thompson A(5), Ernst B(1), Bouckaert 
J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Pharmacy, Pharmacenter, University of Basel ,
Klingelbergstrasse 50-70, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland. (2)University of Lille,
CNRS UMR8576 UGSF (Unité de Glycobiologie Structurale et Fonctionnelle), 59000
Lille, France; Structure et Fonction des Membranes Biologiques, Université Libre 
de Bruxelles (ULB), Brussels, Belgium. (3)Structure et Fonction des Membranes
Biologiques, Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) , Brussels, Belgium.
(4)University of Lille, CNRS UMR8576 UGSF (Unité de Glycobiologie Structurale et 
Fonctionnelle) , 59000 Lille, France. (5)Synchrotron SOLEIL , l'Orme de
Merisiers, Saint-Aubin BP48, Gif-sur-Yvette CEDEX, France.

The most prevalent diseases manifested by Escherichia coli are acute and
recurrent bladder infections and chronic inflammatory bowel diseases such as
Crohn's disease. E. coli clinical isolates express the FimH adhesin, which
consists of a mannose-specific lectin domain connected via a pilin domain to the 
tip of type 1 pili. Although the isolated FimH lectin domain has affinities in
the nanomolar range for all high-mannosidic glycans, differentiation between
these glycans is based on their capacity to form predominantly hydrophobic
interactions within the tyrosine gate at the entrance to the binding pocket. In
this study, novel crystal structures of tyrosine-gate mutants of FimH,
ligand-free or in complex with heptyl α-d-O-mannopyranoside or 4-biphenyl
α-d-O-mannopyranoside, are combined with quantum-mechanical calculations and
molecular-dynamics simulations. In the Y48A FimH crystal structure, a large
increase in the dynamics of the alkyl chain of heptyl α-d-O-mannopyranoside
attempts to compensate for the absence of the aromatic ring; however, the highly 
energetic and stringent mannose-binding pocket of wild-type FimH is largely
maintained. The Y137A mutation, on the other hand, is the most detrimental to
FimH affinity and specificity: (i) in the absence of ligand the FimH C-terminal
residue Thr158 intrudes into the mannose-binding pocket and (ii)
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid interacts strongly with Glu50, Thr53 and Asn136, 
in spite of multiple dialysis and purification steps. Upon mutation,
pre-ligand-binding relaxation of the backbone dihedral angles at position 137 in 
the tyrosine gate and their coupling to Tyr48 via the interiorly located Ile52
form the basis of the loss of affinity of the FimH adhesin in the Y137A mutant.

DOI: 10.1107/S2052252516016675 
PMCID: PMC5331462
PMID: 28250938 


366. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2017 Apr;13(4):197. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2017.30. Epub 2017
Mar 2.

Vasculitis syndromes: Shared genetic risk for Behçet disease and Crohn's disease.

McHugh J.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2017.30 
PMID: 28250463 


367. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2017 Feb 13. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001027. [Epub ahead of
print]

Early Transcriptomic Changes in the Ileal Pouch Provide Insight into the
Molecular Pathogenesis of Pouchitis and Ulcerative Colitis.

Huang Y(1), Dalal S, Antonopoulos D, Hubert N, Raffals LH, Dolan K, Weber C,
Messer JS, Jabri B, Bendelac A, Eren AM, Rubin DT, Sogin M, Chang EB.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Medicine, Knapp Center for Biomedical Discovery, University of 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; †Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois;
‡Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; and §Biosciences
Division, Josephine Bay Paul Center, Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, 
Woods Hole, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Ulcerative colitis (UC) only involves the colonic mucosa. Yet, nearly
50% of patients with UC who undergo total proctocolectomy with ileal pouch anal
anastomosis develop UC-like inflammation of the ileal pouch (pouchitis). By
contrast, patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) with ileal pouch
anal anastomosis develop pouchitis far less frequently. We hypothesized that
pathogenic events associated with the development of UC are recapitulated by
colonic-metaplastic transcriptomic reprogramming of the UC pouch.
METHODS: We prospectively sampled pouch and prepouch ileum mucosal biopsies in
patients with UC with ileal pouch anal anastomosis 4, 8, and 12 months after
their pouch was in continuity. Mucosal samples were also obtained from patients
with FAP. Transcriptional profiles of the UC and FAP pouch and prepouch ileum
were investigated via RNA sequencing and compared with data from a previously
published microarray study.
RESULTS: Unlike patients with FAP, subjects with UC exhibited a large set of
differentially expressed genes between the pouch and prepouch ileum as early as 4
months after pouch functionalization. Functional pathway analysis of
differentially expressed genes in the UC pouch revealed an enhanced state of
immune/inflammatory response and extracellular matrix remodeling. Moreover, >70% 
of differentially expressed genes mapped to published inflammatory bowel diseases
microarray data sets displayed directional changes consistent with active UC but 
not with Crohn's disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The UC pouch, well before histologic inflammation, already displays 
a systems-level gain of colon-associated genes and loss of ileum-associated
genes. Patients with UC exhibit a unique transcriptomic response to ileal pouch
creation that can be observed well before disease and may in part explain their
susceptibility to the development of pouchitis.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000001027 
PMID: 28248733 


368. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2016 Nov 17. doi: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001470.
[Epub ahead of print]

Endoscopic Recurrence Six Months After Ileocecal Resection in Children with
Crohn's Disease Treated with Azathioprine.

Zarubova K(1), Hradsky O, Copova I, Rouskova B, Pos L, Skaba R, Bronsky J.

Author information: 
(1)*Gastroenterology and Nutrition Unit, Department of Pediatrics, 2nd Faculty of
Medicine, Charles University and University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech
Republic†Department of Pediatric Surgery, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University and University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.

OBJECTIVE: Intestinal surgery is an important part of Crohn's disease (CD)
treatment in children. The aim of this study was to compare the rate of
endoscopic recurrence at the 6 month after ileocecal resection (ICR) in children 
with CD treated with azathioprine (AZA) between patients who received prior
anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNF-α) therapy and those who were not
administered this therapy. Moreover, we tried to identify the potential risk
factors for disease recurrence and describe the schedule of long-term follow-up
after surgery.
METHODS: We prospectively collected data from pediatric patients with CD, who
underwent ICR between October 2011 and June 2015 at our hospital and were treated
with AZA monotherapy after ICR. We evaluated the endoscopic recurrence (Rutgeerts
score) at the 6 month after ICR in all included patients.
RESULTS: Among twenty-one included patients, 13 achieved endoscopic remission
(Rutgeerts score < i2) at the 6 month after ICR. No difference was found between 
patients who received prior anti-TNF-α therapy and those who did not. We did not 
find any clinically relevant factors associated with endoscopic recurrence rate
at the 6 month.
CONCLUSION: Prior anti-TNF-α therapy does not seem to be a strong risk factor for
endoscopic recurrence within 6 months after ICR. Further studies on large sample 
of patients are needed to identify potential predictors of disease recurrence.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000001470 
PMID: 28248209 


369. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2017 Mar 1;109. doi: 10.17235/reed.2017.4691/2016. [Epub
ahead of print]

Symptomatic retention of the Agile® patency capsule.

Egea Valenzuela J(1), Estrella Diez E(2), Alberca de Las Parras F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario Virgen 
de la Arrixa, España. (2)Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca,
España. (3)Servicio de Medicina de Aparato Digestivo., Hospital Clínico
Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca. IMIB-Arrixaca., España.

The Agile® capsule has shown to be useful when evaluating the patency of the
small bowel in patients prior to capsule endoscopy studies. It is a safe tool and
a low rate of complications have been reported, highlighting symptomatic
retention, although references in literature are scarce and it is only observed
in 1.2% of the procedures. We present the case of a symptomatic retention of this
device in a patient with previously known colonic Crohn's disease in who a small 
bowel study was indicated and was sent for prior patency test.

DOI: 10.17235/reed.2017.4691/2016 
PMID: 28247769 


370. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Apr;45(8):1058-1072. doi: 10.1111/apt.13995. Epub
2017 Mar 1.

Review article: moving towards common therapeutic goals in Crohn's disease and
rheumatoid arthritis.

Allen PB(1), Olivera P(2), Emery P(3), Moulin D(4), Jouzeau JY(4), Netter P(4),
Danese S(5), Feagan B(6), Sandborn WJ(7), Peyrin-Biroulet L(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Ulster Hospital, Belfast, UK.
(2)Gastroenterology Section, Department of Internal Medicine, Centro de Educación
Médica e Investigaciones Clínicas (CEMIC), Buenos Aires, Argentina. (3)Leeds
Institute of Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Medicine, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS
Trust, Leeds, UK. (4)UMR 7365 IMoPA CNRS-Université de Lorraine, Biopôle de
l'Université de Lorraine, Campus Biologie-Santé, Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy Cedex,
France. (5)Department of Gastroenterology, IBD Center, Istituto Clinico
Humanitas, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy. (6)Western University, London, ON,
Canada. (7)Division of Gastroenterology, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, CA, USA. (8)Inserm U954 and Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology,
University Hospital of Nancy, Lorraine University, Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, France.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis are chronic,
progressive and disabling conditions that frequently lead to structural tissue
damage. Based on strategies originally developed for rheumatoid arthritis, the
treatment goal for CD has recently moved from exclusively controlling symptoms to
both clinical remission and complete mucosal healing (deep remission), with the
final aim of preventing bowel damage and disability.
AIM: To review the similarities and differences in treatment goals between CD and
rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: This review examined manuscripts from 1982 to 2016 that discussed and/or
proposed therapeutic goals with their supportive evidence in CD and rheumatoid
arthritis.
RESULTS: Proposed therapeutic strategies to improve outcomes in both rheumatoid
arthritis and CD include: (i) evaluation of musculoskeletal or organ damage and
disability, (ii) tight control, (iii) treat-to-target, (iv) early intervention
and (v) disease modification. In contrast to rheumatoid arthritis, there is a
paucity of disease-modification trials in CD.
CONCLUSIONS: Novel therapeutic strategies in CD based on tight control of
objective signs of inflammation are expected to change disease course and
patients' lives by halting progression or, ideally, preventing the occurrence of 
bowel damage. Most of these strategies require validation in prospective studies,
whereas several disease-modification trials have addressed these issues in
rheumatoid arthritis over the last decade. The recent approval of new drugs in CD
such as vedolizumab and ustekinumab should facilitate initiation of
disease-modification trials in CD in the near future.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13995 
PMID: 28247573 


371. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Feb 14;23(6):1076-1089. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1076.

Simple pain measures reveal psycho-social pathology in patients with Crohn's
disease.

Odes S(1), Friger M(1), Sergienko R(1), Schwartz D(1), Sarid O(1), Slonim-Nevo
V(1), Singer T(1), Chernin E(1), Vardi H(1), Greenberg D(1), Israel Ibd Research 
Nucleus(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shmuel Odes, Terri Singer, Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheba 84105, Israel.

AIM: To determine whether pain has psycho-social associations in adult Crohn's
disease (CD) patients.
METHODS: Patients completed demographics, disease status, Patient Harvey-Bradshaw
Index (P-HBI), Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), Short Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Questionnaire (SIBDQ), and five socio-psychological questionnaires: Brief Symptom
Inventory, Brief COPE Inventory, Family Assessment Device, Satisfaction with Life
Scale, and Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire. Pain
sub-scales in P-HBI, SF-36 and SIBDQ measures were recoded into 4 identical
scores for univariate and multinomial logistic regression analysis of
associations with psycho-social variables.
RESULTS: The cohort comprised 594 patients, mean age 38.6 ± 14.8 years, women
52.5%, P-HBI 5.76 ± 5.15. P-HBI, SF-36 and SIBDQ broadly agreed in their
assessment of pain intensity. More severe pain was significantly associated with 
female gender, low socio-economic status, unemployment, Israeli birth and
smoking. Higher pain scores correlated positively with psychological stress,
dysfunctional coping strategies, poor family relationships, absenteeism,
presenteeism, productivity loss and activity impairment and all WPAI sub-scores. 
Patients exhibiting greater satisfaction with life had less pain. The regression 
showed increasing odds ratios for psychological stress (lowest 2.26, highest
12.17) and female gender (highest 3.19) with increasing pain. Internet-recruited 
patients were sicker and differed from hardcopy questionnaire patients in their
associations with pain.
CONCLUSION: Pain measures in P-HBI, SF-36 and SIBDQ correlate with psycho-social 
pathology in CD. Physicians should be aware also of these relationships in
approaching CD patients with pain.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1076 
PMCID: PMC5311097
PMID: 28246482 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: None to declare.


372. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Feb 14;23(6):1067-1075. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1067.

Disease impact on the quality of life of children with inflammatory bowel
disease.

Chouliaras G(1), Margoni D(1), Dimakou K(1), Fessatou S(1), Panayiotou I(1),
Roma-Giannikou E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giorgos Chouliaras, Daphne Margoni, Konstantina Dimakou, Smaragdi Fessatou,
Ioanna Panayiotou, Eleftheria Roma-Giannikou, First Department of Pediatrics,
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, "Aghia Sophia" Children's
Hospital, 11527 Athens, Greece.

AIM: To assess the impact of disease characteristics on the quality of life (QOL)
in children with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD).
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study conducted at the First Department of
Pediatrics of the University of Athens at the "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital.
Children diagnosed with Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC), who were
followed as outpatients or during a hospitalization, participated, after informed
consent was obtained from their legal representative. QOL was assessed by the
IMPACT-III questionnaire. Demographic data and disease characteristics were also 
collected. Statistical analyses included parametric (Student's t-test and
Pearson's r) and non-parametric (Mann-Whitney test, Fisher's test and Spearman's 
rho) procedures.
RESULTS: Ninety-nine patients (UC: 37, 73.0% females, CD: 62, 51.6% females),
aged 12.8 ± 2.6 years were included. Overall, as well as, sub-domain scores did
not differ between UC and CD (overall score: 73.9 ± 13.3 vs 77.5 ± 11.2,
respectively, P = 0.16). In the entire sample, total score was related to
physician's global assessment (PGA, patients classified as "mild/moderate" active
disease had, on average, 14.8 ± 2.7 points lower total scores compared to those
"in remission", P < 0.001) and age at IMPACT completion (Pearson's r = 0.29, P = 
0.05). Disease activity assessed by the indices Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis
activity index, Pediatric Crohn's disease activity index or PGA was significantly
associated with all subdomains scores. Presence of extraintestinal manifestations
had a negative impact on emotional and social functioning domains.
CONCLUSION: Disease activity is the main correlate of QOL in children with IBD,
underlining the importance of achieving and sustaining clinical remission.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1067 
PMCID: PMC5311096
PMID: 28246481 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: There are no
conflicts of interest to report.


373. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Feb 14;23(6):1018-1029. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1018.

Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging in quiescent Crohn's disease patients with
fatigue.

van Erp S(1), Ercan E(1), Breedveld P(1), Brakenhoff L(1), Ghariq E(1), Schmid
S(1), van Osch M(1), van Buchem M(1), Emmer B(1), van der Grond J(1), Wolterbeek 
R(1), Hommes D(1), Fidder H(1), van der Wee N(1), Huizinga T(1), van der Heijde
D(1), Middelkoop H(1), Ronen I(1), van der Meulen-de Jong A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sanne van Erp, Lianne Brakenhoff, Daniel Hommes, Andrea van der Meulen-de
Jong, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Leiden University Medical
Center, Leiden, Zuid-Holland 2333 ZA, the Netherlands.

AIM: To evaluate brain involvement in quiescent Crohn's disease (CD) patients
with fatigue using quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS: Multiple MRI techniques were used to assess cerebral changes in 20
quiescent CD patients with fatigue (defined with at least 6 points out of an
11-point numeric rating scale compared with 17 healthy age and gender matched
controls without fatigue. Furthermore, mental status was assessed by cognitive
functioning, based on the neuropsychological inventory including the different
domains global cognitive functioning, memory and executive functioning and in
addition mood and quality of life scores. Cognitive functioning and mood status
were correlated with MRI findings in the both study groups.
RESULTS: Reduced glutamate + glutamine (Glx = Glu + Gln) concentrations (P =
0.02) and ratios to total creatine (P = 0.02) were found in CD patients compared 
with controls. Significant increased Cerebral Blood Flow (P = 0.05) was found in 
CD patients (53.08 ± 6.14 mL/100 g/min) compared with controls (47.60 ± 8.62
mL/100 g/min). CD patients encountered significantly more depressive symptoms (P 
< 0.001). Cognitive functioning scores related to memory (P = 0.007) and
executive functioning (P = 0.02) were lower in CD patients and both scores showed
correlation with depression and anxiety. No correlation was found subcortical
volumes between CD patients and controls in the T1-weighted analysis. In
addition, no correlation was found between mental status and MRI findings.
CONCLUSION: This work shows evidence for perfusion, neurochemical and mental
differences in the brain of CD patients with fatigue compared with healthy
controls.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i6.1018 
PMCID: PMC5311090
PMID: 28246475 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose.


374. Mediators Inflamm. 2017;2017:8392523. doi: 10.1155/2017/8392523. Epub 2017 Jan
26.

The Interplay between Defensins and Microbiota in Crohn's Disease.

Coretti L(1), Natale A(1), Cuomo M(1), Florio E(1), Keller S(1), Lembo F(2),
Chiariotti L(1), Pero R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Endocrinology and Experimental Oncology (IEOS), National Research
Council (CNR), 80131 Naples, Italy; Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical 
Biotechnology, University of Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples,
Italy. (3)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University 
of Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammation of the intestinal mucosa,
characterized by periods of acute recurrence and remission. Depending on the
specific region affected, CD is classified as ileal CD or colonic CD. It is
largely accepted that the intestinal microbiota is involved in the onset of the
pathology. Indeed, a reduced immune tolerance to components of the intestinal
commensal microbiota and inflammation of the intestinal barrier typifies patients
with CD. Several studies have shown defective expression of intestinal
antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) in patients with CD compared to controls,
particularly defensins. A reduction in α-defensins is observed in ileal CD, while
β-defensins are increased in colonic CD. In addition to an immunological basis,
the disease is frequently associated with genetic alterations including mutations
of NOD2 gene. Several therapeutic strategies to circumvent the dysfunction
observed in CD are currently under investigation. These include the use of
delivery systems to administer endogenous AMPs and the engineering of
peptidomimetics that could ameliorate the severity of CD. In this review, the
role defensins play in CD and the strategies aimed at overcoming bacterial
resistance will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/8392523 
PMCID: PMC5299173
PMID: 28246439 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.


375. Curr Pharm Des. 2017 Feb 28. doi: 10.2174/1381612823666170228123357. [Epub ahead 
of print]

The Role of Stress in Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.

Dolores S, Agnese M, Rocco R, Alessandro F, Marco R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine Second University of Naples
Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a multi-factorial systemic
disorder which involves immune, genetic and environmental factors. Stress, in its
various forms, plays an important role in gastrointestinal diseases and, in
particular, in IBD.
METHODS: Here, we focus on the environmental stressors in different aspects of
IBD (pathogenesis, course and severity of disease) and, in particular, will
evaluate the mechanisms by which they may influence IBD.
RESULTS: The effect of stress on IBD might be mediated by autonomic nervous
system and hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis. These nervous pathways are part
of the so called "brain-gut axis" which links gastrointestinal integrity and
functions to central nervous system acting through the increase of intestinal
permeability, bacterial translocation and cytokines network.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of emotional disorders is higher in Crohn's Disease and
Ulcerative Colitis compared to general population. Moreover, depression and
anxiety influence the course and the severity of the underlying intestinal
disease. Hence, it is important to consider appropriate psychological therapy in 
IBD patients.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612823666170228123357 
PMID: 28245757 


376. PLoS One. 2017 Feb 28;12(2):e0172779. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172779.
eCollection 2017.

Coping strategies, satisfaction with life, and quality of life in Crohn's
disease: A gender perspective using structural equation modeling analysis.

Sarid O(1), Slonim-Nevo V(1), Pereg A(1), Friger M(2), Sergienko R(2), Schwartz
D(3), Greenberg D(4), Shahar I(1), Chernin E(2), Vardi H(2), Eidelman L(3), Segal
A(3), Ben-Yakov G(3), Gaspar N(3), Munteanu D(3), Rozental A(3), Mushkalo A(3),
Dizengof V(3), Abu-Freha N(3), Fich A(3), Odes S(5); Israeli IBD Research Nucleus
(IIRN).

Author information: 
(1)Spitzer Department of Social Work, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (2)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(4)Department of Health Systems Management, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (5)Faculty of Health
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: To identify coping strategies and socio-demographics impacting
satisfaction with life and quality of life in Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: 402 patients completed the Patient Harvey-Bradshaw Index, Brief COPE
Inventory, Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), Short Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Questionnaire (SIBDQ). We performed structural equation modeling (SEM) of
mediators of quality of life and satisfaction with life.
RESULTS: The cohort comprised: men 39.3%, women 60.1%; P-HBI 4.75 and 5.74 (p =
0.01). In inactive CD (P-HBI≤4), both genders had SWLS score 23.8; men had SIBDQ 
score 57.4, women 52.6 (p = 0.001); women reported more use of emotion-focused,
problem-focused and dysfunctional coping than men. In active CD, SWLS and SIBDQ
scores were reduced, without gender differences; men and women used coping
strategies equally. A SEM model (all patients) had a very good fit (X2(6) = 6.68,
p = 0.351, X2/df = 1.114, SRMR = 0.045, RMSEA = 0.023, CFI = 0.965). In direct
paths, economic status impacted SWLS (β = 0.39) and SIBDQ (β = 0.12), number of
children impacted SWLS (β = 0.10), emotion-focused coping impacted SWLS (β =
0.11), dysfunctional coping impacted SWLS (β = -0.25). In an indirect path,
economic status impacted dysfunctional coping (β = -0.26), dysfunctional coping
impacted SIBDQ (β = -0.36). A model split by gender and disease activity showed
that in active CD economic status impacted SIBDQ in men (β = 0.43) more than
women (β = 0.26); emotional coping impacted SWLS in women (β = 0.36) more than
men (β = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS: Gender differences in coping and the impacts of economic status and 
emotion-focused coping vary with activity of CD. Psychological treatment in the
clinic setting might improve satisfaction with life and quality of life in CD
patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172779 
PMCID: PMC5330481
PMID: 28245260 


377. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar;32 Suppl 1:40-42. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13695.

Use of the low-FODMAP diet in inflammatory bowel disease.

Gibson PR(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. (2)Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)-like symptoms are not uncommon in patients with
quiescent inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). While gluten-free diet is applied by 
patients, there are no reported interventional studies. The low-FODMAP diet, on
the other hand, has efficacy similar to that seen in patients with IBS in three
unblinded or observational studies of IBD cohorts who had well-controlled
inflammatory disease and in one small randomized cross-over study. FODMAP intake 
by patients with IBD is not elevated, and, in one study, fructan intakes were
lower in patients with Crohn's disease than in controls. There is no clear
relationship between the level of FODMAP intake and intestinal inflammation. The 
risk of compromising nutritional status with a restrictive diet must be seriously
considered especially as under-nutrition is already common in this patient
population. The effects of FODMAPs on the gut microbiota of patients with Crohn's
disease mimic that in IBS, with a balance between prebiosis from the addition of 
FODMAPs and loss of prebiosis from their reduction. As undernutrition is common
in IBD, the use of restrictive diets should be supervised by a dietitian. Thus,
low-FODMAP diet is a viable option for IBS-like symptoms but should be carefully 
supervised to mitigate risk.

© 2017 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley &
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13695 
PMID: 28244679 


378. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar;32 Suppl 1:64-68. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13700.

Prebiotic inulin-type fructans and galacto-oligosaccharides: definition,
specificity, function, and application in gastrointestinal disorders.

Wilson B(1), Whelan K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences
Division, King's College London, London, UK.

Prebiotics are non-digestible selectively fermented dietary fibers that
specifically promote the growth of one or more bacterial genera in the
gastrointestinal tract and thus provide health benefit to the host. The two most 
investigated prebiotics being the inulin-type fructans and
galacto-oligosaccharides. Prebiotic specificity is mediated through
species-specific gene clusters within saccharolytic bacteria controlled by
signaling sensors for various substrates. Prebiotic health benefits are
attributed to immune regulation and bacterial metabolite production. In humans,
prebiotic supplementation leads to increased growth of specific gut microbiota
(e.g., bifidobacteria), immune modulation, and depending on the bacterial
augmentation, short-chain fatty acid production. Irritable bowel syndrome and
Crohn's disease are gastrointestinal disorders associated with reductions in some
gut bacteria and greater mucosal inflammation. Prebiotic supplementation studies 
have shown some promise at low doses for modulation of the gut bacteria and
reduction of symptoms in IBS; however, larger doses may have neutral or negative 
impact on symptoms. Studies in Crohn's disease have not shown benefit to
bacterial modulation or inflammatory response with prebiotic supplementation.
Dietary restriction of fermentable carbohydrates (low FODMAP diet), which
restricts some naturally occurring prebiotics from the diet, has shown efficacy
in improving symptoms in irritable bowel syndrome, but it lowers the numbers of
some key gut microbiota. Further research is required on the effect of prebiotics
in gastrointestinal disorders and, in particular, on their use in conjunction
with the low FODMAP diet.

© 2017 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley &
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13700 
PMID: 28244671 


379. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar;32 Suppl 1:90-93. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13706.

Gluten-induced cognitive impairment ("brain fog") in coeliac disease.

Yelland GW(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Central Clinical School, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (2)School of Health Sciences, RMIT University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Much is known about the serious neurological effects of gluten ingestion in
coeliac disease patients, such as sporadic ataxia and peripheral neuropathy,
although the causal links to gluten are still under debate. However, such
disorders are observed in only a small percentage of coeliac patients. Much less 
is known about the transient cognitive impairments to memory, attention,
executive function, and the speed of cognitive processing reported by the
majority of patients with coeliac disease. These mild degradations of cognitive
functions, referred to as "brain fog," are yet to be formally recognized as a
medical or psychological condition. However, subtle tests of cognitive function
are measurable in untreated patients with coeliac disease and improve over the
first 12 months' therapy with a gluten-free diet. Such deficits also occur in
patients with Crohn's disease, particularly in association with systemic
inflammatory activity. Thus, cognitive impairments associated with brain fog are 
psychologically and neurologically real and improve with adherence to a
gluten-free diet. There is not yet sufficient evidence to provide a definitive
account of the mechanism by which gluten ingestion causes the impairments to
cognitive function associated with brain fog, but current evidence suggests that 
it is more likely that the causal factor is not directly related to exposure to
gluten.

© 2017 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley &
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13706 
PMID: 28244662 


380. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1255-1264. doi: 10.1111/apt.14018. Epub
2017 Feb 28.

Visceral adiposity predicts post-operative Crohn's disease recurrence.

Holt DQ(1,)(2), Moore GT(1,)(2), Strauss BJ(2), Hamilton AL(3,)(4), De Cruz P(4),
Kamm MA(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Monash Health, Melbourne, Vic.,
Australia. (2)Monash University, Melbourne, Vic., Australia. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.
(4)University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.

BACKGROUND: Excessive visceral adipose tissue has been associated with poorer
outcomes in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
AIM: To determine whether body composition is associated with outcome in a
prospective study of post-operative Crohn's disease patients.
METHODS: The POCER study evaluated management strategies for prevention of
post-operative Crohn's disease recurrence; subjects were enrolled after resection
of all macroscopic Crohn's disease and were randomised to early endoscopy and
possible treatment escalation, or standard care. The primary endpoint was
endoscopic recurrence at 18 months. 44 subjects with cross-sectional abdominal
imaging were studied, and body composition analysis performed using established
techniques to measure visceral adipose tissue area, subcutaneous adipose tissue
area, and skeletal muscle area.
RESULTS: The body composition parameter with the greatest variance was visceral
adipose tissue. Regardless of treatment, all subjects with visceral adipose
tissue/height(2) >1.5 times the gender-specific mean experienced endoscopic
recurrence at 18 months (compared to 47%) [relative risk 2.1, 95% CI 1.5-3.0, P =
0.012]. Waist circumference correlated strongly with visceral adipose tissue area
(ρ = 0.840, P < 0.001). Low skeletal muscle was prevalent (41% of patients), but 
did not predict endoscopic recurrence; however, appendicular skeletal muscle
indices correlated inversely with faecal calprotectin (ρ = 0.560, P = 0.046).
CONCLUSIONS: Visceral adiposity is an independent risk factor for endoscopic
recurrence of Crohn's disease after surgery. Sarcopenia correlates with
inflammatory biomarkers. Measures of visceral adipose tissue may help to stratify
risk in post-operative management strategies.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14018 
PMID: 28244124 


381. Clin Transl Oncol. 2017 Feb 27. doi: 10.1007/s12094-017-1634-1. [Epub ahead of
print]

Associations between single-nucleotide polymorphisms and inflammatory bowel
disease-associated colorectal cancers in inflammatory bowel disease patients: a
meta-analysis.

Li H(1), Jin Z(1), Li X(1), Wu L(1), Jin J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, and College
of Clinical Medicine of Henan University of Science and Technology, No. 24
Jinghua Road, Jianxi District, Luoyang, 471003, Henan, China. (2)Department of
Digestive Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, and College of Clinical
Medicine of Henan University of Science and Technology, No. 24 Jinghua Road,
Jianxi District, Luoyang, 471003, Henan, China. jianjun713@sina.com.

PURPOSE: To assess the correlation between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-associated colorectal cancer (CRC) in IBD
patients.
METHODS: A systematic search of PubMed, EmBase, and Cochrane databases was
performed. Five genetic models (allelic, dominant, recessive, heterozygous and
homozygous models) were used to analyze the associations, and trial sequential
analysis was used to analyze the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: We collected and analyzed the results of seven trials including a total 
of 2287 patients in our meta-analysis. A total of 8 SNPs were tested in IBD
patients. For rs1800629 of TNF-α, the allelic model showed that polymorphism at
this locus significantly increased the risk of IBD-associated CRC in IBD patients
(OR 4.45, 95% CI 3.18-6.21, P < 0.001). The results also showed a significant
association between rs1800629 and an IBD-associated CRC population (heterozygous 
model: OR 4.335, 95% CI 2.329-8.069, P < 0.001; homozygous model: OR 11.5, 95% CI
2.498-52.592, P = 0.002; dominant model: OR 4.986, 95% CI 2.754-9.026, P < 0.001;
recessive model: OR 7.208, 95% CI 1.588-32.72, P = 0.01). Other studies have
found that mutation of rs1143627 of IL1B (allelic model: OR 2.97; 95% CI
1.74-5.05, P < 0.001) and rs1050152 of OCTN1 (allelic model: OR 1.637, 95% CI
1.078-2.485, P = 0.021) increased the proportion of IBD-associated CRC in the
population. Moreover, there were significant associations between IBD-associated 
CRC and ITLN rs2274910, gene desert rs1551398 and rs4871611, FCGR2A rs1801274,
and S100-Z rs7712957 in the allelic model.
CONCLUSION: Associations between SNPs and the proportion of IBD-associated CRC in
IBD patients were examined, and further investigation of additional SNPs and
their association with the risk of morbidity is needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-017-1634-1 
PMID: 28243990 


382. Ann Gastroenterol. 2017;30(2):197-208. doi: 10.20524/aog.2017.0121. Epub 2017 Jan
5.

rs2476601 polymorphism in PTPN22 is associated with Crohn's disease but not with 
ulcerative colitis: a meta-analysis of 16,838 cases and 13,356 controls.

Hedjoudje A(1), Cheurfa C(2), Briquez C(3), Zhang A(4), Koch S(3), Vuitton L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gastro-entérologie, Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire de Besançon,
Besançon (Abdellah Hedjoudje, Clément Briquez, Stéphane Koch, Lucine Vuitton);
Faculté de Médecine, Université Paris Descartes, Paris (Chérifa Cheurfa).
(2)Faculté de Médecine, Université Paris Descartes, Paris (Chérifa Cheurfa);
Anésthésie réanimation, CHU Charles Nicolle, Rouen, France (Chérifa Cheurfa).
(3)Gastro-entérologie, Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire de Besançon,
Besançon (Abdellah Hedjoudje, Clément Briquez, Stéphane Koch, Lucine Vuitton).
(4)Johns Hopkins University Evidence-based Practice Center, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, United States (Allen Zhang).

BACKGROUND: Although the rs2476601 polymorphism of PTPN22 has been reported to be
a susceptibility gene for Crohn's disease (CD), results from different studies
vary and remain inconclusive. Also, no association has been found between
rs2476601 and the risk of ulcerative colitis (UC). The aim of this meta-analysis 
was to investigate the association between this PTPN22 polymorphism (rs2476601)
and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease, UC and CD.
METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis by identifying relevant candidate
gene-based studies from EMBASE and MEDLINE. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence
intervals (CI) were calculated to estimate the strength of associations between
rs2476601 and inflammatory bowel diseases, using a fixed effect or random effect 
model. Publication bias was also assessed.
RESULTS: By pooling 14 different studies, 13,356 controls, 8182 patients with CD,
and 8656 with UC were included. We found that the T allele of PTPN22 was not
significantly associated with a higher risk of developing UC (OR 1.06, 95%CI
0.98-1.14) but was associated with a decreased risk of developing CD (OR 1.28,
95%CI 1.17-1.40). The T allele in rs2476601 lowered the risk of CD by 22%.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that PTPN22 (rs2476601) is significantly associated 
with the risk of developing CD, but has no association with UC. This suggests
that these diseases have different pathways involved in their pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.20524/aog.2017.0121 
PMCID: PMC5320033
PMID: 28243041 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


383. Ann Gastroenterol. 2017;30(2):168-178. doi: 10.20524/aog.2016.0119. Epub 2016 Dec
22.

Capsule endoscopy for the diagnosis and follow up of Crohn's disease: a
comprehensive review of current status.

Jensen MD(1), Brodersen JB(2), Kjeldsen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Gastroenterology, Lillebaelt
Hospital Vejle (Michael Dam Jensen). (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Section 
of Gastroenterology, Hospital of Southwest Jutland, Esbjerg (Jacob Broder
Brodersen). (3)Department of Medical Gastroenterology, Odense University
Hospital, Odense (Jens Kjeldsen), Denmark.

Capsule endoscopy (CE) has revolutionized the diagnosis and monitoring of small
bowel Crohn's disease (CD). The procedure is patient friendly and noninvasive,
and compared to cross-sectional imaging, CE allows a direct and detailed
evaluation of the entire small bowel mucosa with a high sensitivity for the
earliest lesions of CD. Today, CE is the leading modality for visualizing the
small bowel in suspected CD, and validated activity indices are available for the
follow up of patients with established CD. CE of the entire gastrointestinal
tract (panenteric CE) was recently introduced as a new diagnostic approach in
patients examined for CD, and preliminary results are promising. There are
important limitations, involving mainly capsule retention. Furthermore, a
diagnostic criterion for CD has never been validated, and lesions detected by CE 
are not specific for CD. Hence, concern has been raised about a low specificity
compared to other diagnostic modalities. Important questions about the optimal
bowel preparation, selection of patients for CE and the optimal reading protocol 
remain to be clarified. The aim of this review is to evaluate the performance of 
CE for diagnosing CD and assess disease activity in known CD; to compare the
diagnostic accuracy of CE to that of cross-sectional imaging; to discuss
limitations; and to define the place of CE in the diagnostic algorithm in
suspected or known CD.

DOI: 10.20524/aog.2016.0119 
PMCID: PMC5320029
PMID: 28243037 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


384. J Immunol. 2017 Apr 1;198(7):2735-2746. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1600810. Epub 2017 
Feb 27.

Inhibiting Oxidative Phosphorylation In Vivo Restrains Th17 Effector Responses
and Ameliorates Murine Colitis.

Franchi L(1), Monteleone I(2), Hao LY(3), Spahr MA(3), Zhao W(1), Liu X(3),
Demock K(3), Kulkarni A(3), Lesch CA(3), Sanchez B(3), Carter L(3), Marafini
I(2), Hu X(3), Mashadova O(4), Yuan M(5), Asara JM(6), Singh H(7), Lyssiotis
CA(8,)(9), Monteleone G(2), Opipari AW(10), Glick GD(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109.
(2)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 00133 Rome,
Italy. (3)Lycera Corporation, Ann Arbor, MI 48109. (4)Meyer Cancer Center, Weill 
Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 10065. (5)Division of Signal Transduction, 
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02115. (6)Department of
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115. (7)Division of Immunobiology,
Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229.
(8)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MI 48109. (9)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109. (10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109; and. (11)Department of Chemistry, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 gglick@umich.edu.

Integration of signaling and metabolic pathways enables and sustains lymphocyte
function. Whereas metabolic changes occurring during T cell activation are well
characterized, the metabolic demands of differentiated T lymphocytes are largely 
unexplored. In this study, we defined the bioenergetics of Th17 effector cells
generated in vivo. These cells depend on oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) for
energy and cytokine production. Mechanistically, the essential role of OXPHOS in 
Th17 cells results from their limited capacity to increase glycolysis in response
to metabolic stresses. This metabolic program is observed in mouse and human Th17
cells, including those isolated from Crohn disease patients, and it is linked to 
disease, as inhibiting OXPHOS reduces the severity of murine colitis and
psoriasis. These studies highlight the importance of analyzing metabolism in
effector lymphocytes within in vivo inflammatory contexts and suggest a
therapeutic role for manipulating OXPHOS in Th17-driven diseases.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1600810 
PMCID: PMC5360504 [Available on 2018-04-01]
PMID: 28242647 


385. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2017 Apr;42(3):331-334. doi: 10.1111/ced.13061. Epub 2017 Feb 
27.

Cutaneous leishmaniasis associated with anti-tumour necrosis factor-α drugs: an
emerging disease.

Marcoval J(1), Penín RM(2), Sabé N(3), Valentí-Medina F(1), Bonfill-Ortí M(1),
Martínez-Molina L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, IDIBELL,
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (2)Department of Pathology, Hospital 
Universitari de Bellvitge, IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge,
IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Leishmaniasis is endemic in several geographic areas of the world. In each of
these areas, particular species of Leishmania with differing aggressiveness to
humans predominate. In the European Mediterranean basin, cutaneous leishmaniasis 
usually presents with discrete, self-healing skin lesions. Although it is known
that tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors may increase the risk of developing 
infections such as tuberculosis, there is scarce literature on Leishmania
infections in patients treated with these drugs. In recent months, we have
observed three patients resident in the Catalan coast of Spain who were treated
with TNF inhibitors for Crohn disease, and who developed unusually large and
persistent cutaneous lesions of leishmaniasis. These lesions responded only to
treatment with intravenous liposomal amphotericin B. In countries with a high
incidence of infection by aggressive species of Leishmania, serological screening
may be indicated to detect a possible latent leishmanial infection before
prescription of TNF inhibitors.

© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ced.13061 
PMID: 28239885 


386. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 May;45(9):1244-1254. doi: 10.1111/apt.14004. Epub
2017 Feb 26.

The potential of volatile organic compounds for the detection of active disease
in patients with ulcerative colitis.

Smolinska A(1), Bodelier AG(2,)(3), Dallinga JW(1), Masclee AA(2), Jonkers DM(2),
van Schooten FJ(1), Pierik MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, NUTRIM School for Nutrition, and
Translational Research in Metabolism, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The
Netherlands. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, NUTRIM School for 
Nutrition, and Translational Research in Metabolism, Maastricht University
Medical Center+, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, 
Amphia Hospital, Breda, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: To optimise treatment of ulcerative colitis (UC), patients need
repeated assessment of mucosal inflammation. Current non-invasive biomarkers and 
clinical activity indices do not accurately reflect disease activity in all
patients and cannot discriminate UC from non-UC colitis. Volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) in exhaled air could be predictive of active disease or
remission in Crohn's disease.
AIM: To investigate whether VOCs are able to differentiate between active UC, UC 
in remission and non-UC colitis.
METHODS: UC patients participated in a 1-year study. Clinical activity index,
blood, faecal and breath samples were collected at each out-patient visit.
Patients with clear defined active faecal calprotectin >250 μg/g and inactive
disease (Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index <3, C-reactive protein <5 mg/L
and faecal calprotectin <100 μg/g) were included for cross-sectional analysis.
Non-UC colitis was confirmed by stool culture or radiological evaluation. Breath 
samples were analysed by gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry and 
kernel-based method to identify discriminating VOCs.
RESULTS: In total, 72 UC (132 breath samples; 62 active; 70 remission) and 22
non-UC-colitis patients (22 samples) were included. Eleven VOCs predicted active 
vs. inactive UC in an independent internal validation set with 92% sensitivity
and 77% specificity (AUC 0.94). Non-UC colitis patients could be clearly
separated from active and inactive UC patients with principal component analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Volatile organic compounds can accurately distinguish active disease
from remission in UC and profiles in UC are clearly different from profiles in
non-UC colitis patients. VOCs have demonstrated potential as new non-invasive
biomarker to monitor inflammation in UC.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14004 
PMID: 28239876 


387. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Apr;45(8):1043-1057. doi: 10.1111/apt.13990. Epub
2017 Feb 26.

Systematic review with meta-analysis: the efficacy and safety of CT-P13, a
biosimilar of anti-tumour necrosis factor-α agent (infliximab), in inflammatory
bowel diseases.

Komaki Y(1), Yamada A(1), Komaki F(1), Micic D(2), Ido A(3), Sakuraba A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of Medicine,
The University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, USA. (2)Division of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School
of Medicine, Chicago, USA. (3)Digestive and Lifestyle Diseases, Kagoshima
University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Biosimilars of anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α agents have now
become clinically available for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases
(IBD).
AIM: To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy
and safety of biosimilars of anti-TNF-α agents in patients with IBD.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched. The outcomes were the pooled rates
of clinical response or remission, sustained clinical response or remission, and 
adverse events in patients with IBD induced with or switched to biosimilars of
anti-TNF-α agents.
RESULTS: Eleven observational studies reporting outcomes in 829 patients treated 
with biosimilar of infliximab (CT-P13) were identified. The pooled rates of
clinical response among Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) at 8-14 
weeks were 0.79 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.65-0.88) and 0.74 (95% CI =
0.65-0.82), respectively, and at 24-30 weeks were 0.77 (95% CI = 0.63-0.86) and
0.77 (95% CI = 0.67-0.85) respectively. Adverse events were rare (CD, 0.08 (95%
CI = 0.02-0.26); UC, 0.08 (95% CI = 0.03-0.17)). The pooled rates of sustained
clinical response among CD and UC after switching from infliximab to CT-P13 at
30-32 weeks were 0.85 (95% CI = 0.71-0.93) and 0.96 (95% CI = 0.58-1.00),
respectively, and at 48-63 weeks were 0.75 (95% CI = 0.44-0.92) and 0.83 (95% CI 
= 0.19-0.99) respectively. Adverse events were rare (CD, 0.10, 95% CI =
0.02-0.31; UC, 0.22, 95% CI = 0.04-0.63).
CONCLUSIONS: CT-P13 was associated with excellent clinical efficacy and safety
profile, supporting its use in the treatment of IBD.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13990 
PMID: 28239873 


388. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Apr;45(8):1135-1145. doi: 10.1111/apt.13992. Epub
2017 Feb 27.

Intra-patient variability in adalimumab drug levels within and between cycles in 
Crohn's disease.

Ward MG(1,)(2,)(3), Thwaites PA(1), Beswick L(2), Hogg J(1), Rosella G(1), Van
Langenberg D(2,)(3), Reynolds J(3), Gibson PR(1,)(3), Sparrow MP(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Eastern Health, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University,
Melbourne, Vic., Australia.

BACKGROUND: Whether therapeutic drug monitoring for adalimumab needs to be
performed at trough has not been defined.
AIM: To determine intra-patient adalimumab drug-level variation and to identify
modulating patient and disease factors.
METHODS: In this prospective observational study, adult patients with Crohn's
disease established on maintenance adalimumab had drug levels measured repeatedly
according to pre-defined schedules (visit 1: day 4-6, visit 2: day 7-9, trough:
day 13-14) across two consecutive fortnightly cycles. Disease activity was
assessed using Harvey-Bradshaw Index, C-reactive protein and faecal calprotectin.
For this analysis, trough levels ≥4.9 μg/mL were considered therapeutic.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients underwent 111 evaluations. Mean intra-patient drug
levels from paired visits between cycles did not differ (visit1 cycle1: 4.81,
cycle2: 5.21 μg/mL, P = 0.24, visit2 cycle1: 4.86, cycle2: 4.82, P = 0.91 and
trough cycle1: 3.95, cycle2: 3.95, P = 0.99), irrespective of disease activity.
Drug levels were stable over the first 9 days (visit 1-2), but declined to trough
by a mean 1.06 and 0.89 μg/mL between visit 1 or 2, respectively (P < 0.001).
Models using nontemporal factors (smoking, syringe delivery device) and levels at
earlier visits accounted for 66-80% of the variance in trough levels. On
receiver-operating curve analysis, thresholds identified in the first 9 days that
predicted a therapeutic trough level were similar to the trough threshold itself,
with high sensitivity but modest specificity.
CONCLUSION: While therapeutic drug monitoring should be performed at trough, a
drug level ≥4.9 μg/mL obtained during the first 9 days predicts a therapeutic
trough drug level with reasonable confidence.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13992 
PMID: 28239869 


389. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):133-137. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.133. Epub 2017 Jan 
31.

Crohn's disease with ankylosing spondylitis in an adolescent patient who had
undergone long ileo-colonic anastomosis for Hirschsprung's disease as an infant.

Kim HY(1), Kim TW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Dong-A University College of Medicine, Busan,
Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Biomedical Research Institute, Pusan
National University Hospital, Pusan National University School of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, idiopathic, inflammatory disorder of the
gastrointestinal tract. In rare cases, CD has been associated with Hirschsprung's
disease (HD); however, the underlying pathophysiology of this and other
comorbidities is not yet fully understood. In this report, we describe the case
of a 17-year-old patient who was diagnosed with both CD and ankylosing
spondylitis (AS), having undergone a long ileo-colonic anastomosis to treat HD at
12 months of age. To our knowledge, this is the first documented case of CD
combined with AS in a patient with HD.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.133 
PMCID: PMC5323304
PMID: 28239325 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


390. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):124-129. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.124. Epub 2017 Jan 
31.

Metronidazole-induced encephalopathy in a patient with Crohn's disease.

Kim J(1), Chun J(1), Park JY(1), Hong SW(1), Lee JY(1), Kang JW(1), Hwang S(2),
Ko SB(3), Im JP(1), Kim JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Liver Research Institute, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of
Neurology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Metronidazole is a widely used antibiotic for the treatment of anaerobic
bacterial infections. Metronidazole-induced encephalopathy (MIEP) is a rare but
potentially reversible disease. The mechanism of MIEP remains unclear, and
differences in the neurotoxic effects of oral versus intravenous (IV)
metronidazole administration have not yet been determined. We report the case of 
a Crohn's disease (CD) patient who experienced encephalopathy immediately after a
single IV dose of metronidazole following long-term exposure to the oral form of 
the drug. The 64-year-old man with intractable CD experienced a sudden change in 
mental status, aphasia, and muscle weakness after IV administration of
metronidazole. He had previously taken metronidazole orally for 13 years and
received intermittent IV metronidazole treatments for CD exacerbation. Brain
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed high-intensity signals in the bilateral
medial thalamus and the midbrain and pontine tegmentum on fluid-attenuated
inversion recovery images. After discontinuation of metronidazole, the
high-intensity brain MRI signals resolved and the patient's mental status
dramatically improved; however, the patient exhibited mild cognitive dysfunction 
2 months after the onset of encephalopathy.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.124 
PMCID: PMC5323302
PMID: 28239323 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


391. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):103-108. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.103. Epub 2017 Jan 
31.

Status of serum vitamin B12 and folate in patients with inflammatory bowel
disease in China.

Huang S(1), Ma J(1), Zhu M(1), Ran Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Shanghai Institute of Digestive
Disease, Key Laboratory of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ministry of Health,
Renji Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai,
China.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) primarily involves the
intestinal tract and can affect vitamin absorption. This study was designed to
assess the prevalence of vitamin B12 and folate deficiencies in patients with
IBD, and to identify the risk factors associated with abnormal serum vitamin B12 
and folate levels.
METHODS: We evaluated the medical records of 195 patients with Crohn's disease
(CD) and 62 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), and selected 118 healthy
subjects for the control group.
RESULTS: There were more CD patients with vitamin B12 deficiency than UC patients
(14.9% vs. 3.2%, P=0.014) and controls (14.9% vs. 4.2%, P=0.003). The prevalence 
of folate deficiency was higher in CD patients than in controls (13.3% vs. 3.4%, 
P=0.004). There were no significant differences in the serum vitamin B12 and
folate statuses of the UC and control groups. Patients with prior ileal or
ileocolic resection showed a higher prevalence of abnormal vitamin B12 levels
than those without prior resection (n=6/16, n=23/179; P=0.018). A disease
duration within 5 years was a risk factor of abnormal folate levels in CD
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that vitamin B12 and folate deficiencies were more
common in patients with CD than in UC patients and controls. Prior ileal or
ileocolonic resection was a risk factor of serum vitamin B12 abnormalities, and a
disease duration within 5 years was a risk factor of low serum folate levels in
CD patients.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.103 
PMCID: PMC5323299
PMID: 28239320 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


392. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):97-102. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.97. Epub 2017 Jan
31.

Prevalence of hepatitis B, hepatitis C and human immunodeficiency viral
infections in patients with inflammatory bowel disease in north India.

Harsh P(1), Gupta V(2), Kedia S(2), Bopanna S(2), Pilli S(2), Surendernath(2),
Makharia GK(2), Ahuja V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL, USA. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, All
India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) often require
immunosuppressive therapy and blood transfusions and therefore are at a high risk
of contracting infections due to hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis C (HCV) and
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In the present study, we assessed the
prevalence of these infections in patients with IBD.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 908 consecutive patients with IBD
(ulcerative colitis [UC], n=581; Crohn's disease [CD], n=327) who were receiving 
care at a tertiary care center. Ninety-five patients with intestinal tuberculosis
(ITB) were recruited as disease controls. Prospectively maintained patient
databases were reviewed for the prevalence of HBV surface antigen, anti-HCV
antibodies, and HIV (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method). HCV RNA was
examined in patients who tested positive for anti-HCV antibodies. Prevalence data
of the study were compared with that of the general Indian population (HBV, 3.7%;
HCV, 1%; HIV, 0.3%).
RESULTS: The prevalence of HBV, HCV, and HIV was 2.4%, 1.4%, and 0.1%,
respectively, in the 908 patients with IBD. Among the 581 patients with UC, 2.2% 
(12/541) had HBV, 1.7% (9/517) had HCV, and 0.2% (1/499) had HIV. Among the 327
patients with CD, 2.8% (8/288) had HBV, 0.7% (2/273) had HCV, and 0% (0/277) had 
HIV. One patient with CD had HBV and HCV coinfection. The prevalence of HBV, HCV,
and HIV in patients with ITB was 5.9% (4/67), 1.8% (1/57), and 1.2% (1/84),
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of HBV, HCV, and HIV in north Indian patients with
IBD is similar to the prevalence of these viruses in the general community.
Nonetheless, the high risk of flare after immunosuppressive therapy mandates
routine screening of patients with IBD for viral markers.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.97 
PMCID: PMC5323314
PMID: 28239319 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


393. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):90-96. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.90. Epub 2017 Jan 31.

Maternal and fetal outcomes in pregnant Japanese women with inflammatory bowel
disease: our experience with a series of 23 cases.

Minami N(1), Matsuura M(1), Koshikawa Y(1), Yamada S(1), Honzawa Y(1), Yamamoto
S(1), Nakase H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Graduate School of Medicine
Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Our physicians work to expand the possibilities to treat female 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) who wish to become pregnant.
Although many drugs, including 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA), corticosteroids,
immunomodulators, and biologics, are used safely during pregnancy, few reports
have described the therapeutic regimen throughout pregnancy and the management of
patients who relapse during pregnancy precisely. The aim of this study was to
assess the management of patients with IBD during pregnancy.
METHODS: We identified 19 patients (five with Crohn's disease and 14 with
ulcerative colitis [UC]) who became pregnant with a total of 23 pregnancies
between May 2005 and May 2015 by reviewing the medical records of Kyoto
University Hospital. The following data were collected: the maternal variables,
the IBD treatment type, the disease activity, the pregnancy outcome, and the mode
of delivery.
RESULTS: Among the 19 patients, 18 had become pregnant after being diagnosed with
IBD, while one had developed UC newly after pregnancy. Throughout the gestation, 
all patients were treated with probiotics, 5-ASA, prednisolone, cytapheresis, or 
infliximab. The relapse rate during pregnancy was 21.7% (5/23 cases). The five
patients who experienced a relapse were able to pursue their pregnancy after
intensification of their treatments. There were no adverse fetal or neonatal
problems, except in one case that required an emergency Caesarean section because
of placental dysfunction and in which a very low-birth-weight infant was born
preterm.
CONCLUSIONS: Our present data confirmed that even if the disease flares up during
pregnancy, good pregnancy outcomes can be achieved with an optimal
intensification of the patient's treatment.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.90 
PMCID: PMC5323313
PMID: 28239318 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


394. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):83-89. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.83. Epub 2017 Jan 31.

Analysis of the clinical indications for opiate use in inflammatory bowel
disease.

Gao Y(1), Khan S(2), Akerman M(3), Sultan K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hofstra Northwell School of
Medicine, Manhasset, NY, USA. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Northwell
Health Systems, Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Manhasset, NY, USA.
(3)Feinstein Institute for Medical Research Biostatistics Unit, Manhasset, NY,
USA.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Opiate use for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), particularly
high-dose (HD) use, is associated with increased mortality. It's assumed that
opiate use is directly related to IBD-related complaints, although this hasn't
been well defined. Our goal was to determine the indications for opiate use as a 
first step in developing strategies to prevent or decrease opiate use.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort was formed of adults who were diagnosed with IBD 
and for whom outpatient evaluations from 2009 to 2014 were documented. Opiate use
was defined if opiates were prescribed for a minimum of 30 days over a 365-day
period. Individual chart notes were then reviewed to determine the clinical
indication(s) for low-dose (LD) and HD opiate use.
RESULTS: After a search of the electronic records of 1,109,277 patients, 3,226
patients with IBD were found. One hundred four patients were identified as opiate
users, including 65 patients with Crohn's and 39 with ulcerative colitis; a total
of 134 indications were available for these patients. IBD-related complaints
accounted for 49.25% of the opiate indications, with abdominal pain (23.13%)
being the most common. Overall, opiate use for IBD-related complaints (81.40% vs.
50.82%; P=0.0014) and abdominal pain (44.19% vs. 19.67%; P=0.0071) was more
common among HD than among LD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that most IBD patients using opiates, particularly
HD users, used opiates for IBD-related complaints. Future research will need to
determine the degree to which these complaints are related to disease activity
and to formulate non-opiate pain management strategies for patients with both
active and inactive IBD.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.83 
PMCID: PMC5323312
PMID: 28239317 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


395. Intest Res. 2017 Jan;15(1):38-67. doi: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.38. Epub 2017 Jan 31.

Second Korean guidelines for the management of Crohn's disease.

Park JJ(1), Yang SK(2), Ye BD(2), Kim JW(3), Park DI(4), Yoon H(5), Im JP(6), Lee
KM(7), Yoon SN(8), Lee H(9); IBD Study Group of the Korean Association for the
Study of Intestinal Diseases.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ulsan College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University
College of Medicine Ilsan Paik Hospital, Goyang, Korea. (4)Department of Internal
Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department
of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam,
Korea. (6)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Korea. (7)Department of Internal Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea College of Medicine, Suwon, Korea. (8)Department of Surgery, Hallym
University College of Medicine, Chuncheon, Korea. (9)Center for Preventive
Medicine and Public Health, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam,
Korea.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, progressive, and disabling inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD) with an uncertain etiopathogenesis. CD can involve any site of the 
gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus, and is associated with serious
complications, such as bowel strictures, perforations, and fistula formation. The
incidence and prevalence rates of CD in Korea are still lower compared with those
in Western countries, but they have been rapidly increasing during the recent
decades. Although there are no definitive curative modalities for CD, various
medical and surgical therapies have been applied for the treatment of this
disease. Concerning CD management, there have been substantial discrepancies
among clinicians according to their personal experience and preference. To
suggest recommendable approaches to the diverse problems of CD and to minimize
the variations in treatment among physicians, guidelines for the management of CD
were first published in 2012 by the IBD Study Group of the Korean Association for
the Study of Intestinal Diseases. These are the revised guidelines based on
updated evidence, accumulated since 2012. These guidelines were developed by
using mainly adaptation methods, and encompass induction and maintenance
treatment of CD, treatment based on disease location, treatment of CD
complications, including stricture and fistula, surgical treatment, and
prevention of postoperative recurrence. These are the second Korean guidelines
for the management of CD and will be continuously revised as new evidence is
collected.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2017.15.1.38 
PMCID: PMC5323307
PMID: 28239314 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


396. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Feb 23. pii: S1542-3565(17)30195-7. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2017.01.035. [Epub ahead of print]

Temporal Trends in Initiation of Therapy With Tumor Necrosis Factor Antagonists
for Patients With Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A Population-based Analysis.

Targownik LE(1), Tenakaroon A(2), Leung S(2), Lix LM(3), Singh H(4), Bernstein
CN(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada; University of Manitoba IBD Clinical and Research Centre. Electronic
address: laura.targownik@med.umanitoba.ca. (2)Department of Community Health
Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. (3)Department of
Community Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada;
University of Manitoba IBD Clinical and Research Centre. (4)Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; University
of Manitoba IBD Clinical and Research Centre.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents are effective
treatments for Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). We aimed to
determine their patterns of use and changes in these patterns over time, as well 
as use of immunomodulators and corticosteroids before anti-TNF therapy for
persons with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD).
METHODS: We used the University of Manitoba IBD Epidemiology Database to identify
all anti-TNF users with CD and UC from 2001 through 2014. We assessed changes in 
the prevalence and incidence of anti-TNF use over different time periods (April
2001-March 2005, April 2005-March 2009, or April 2009 - March 2013). We also
characterized patterns of corticosteroid use, corticosteroid dependence, and
immunomodulator use before anti-TNF administration, and determined how these
changed over time. The primary endpoint was change in time to first receipt of
anti-TNF among the different time periods.
RESULTS: We identified 950 persons (761 with CD and 189 with UC) who received
anti-TNF agents. The cumulative prevalence of persons with current or prior
anti-TNF exposure in 2014 was 20.4% for CD and 6.0% for UC. In 2014, the
cumulative incidence values of anti-TNF exposure within 5 years of diagnosis were
23.4% for patients with CD and 7.8% for patients with UC. Most users of anti-TNF 
agents had evidence of corticosteroid dependence (more than 2 g prednisone within
any 12-month period) before initiation of anti-TNF therapy. Cumulative
corticosteroid exposure before anti-TNF use decreased over time for patients with
UC, but not significantly for patients with CD. There was no increase over time
in the use of concomitant immunomodulators with anti-TNF therapy.
CONCLUSION: Use of anti-TNF agents increased from 2001 through 2014, with a
concomitant significant decrease in cumulative use of corticosteroids before
anti-TNF therapy for patients with UC. However, there has been no reduction in
cumulative use of corticosteroids before anti-TNF therapy for patients with CD,
and no change in use of immunomodulators by patients with CD. These findings
indicate a continuing need for optimization of anti-TNF therapy for patients with
IBD.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2017.01.035 
PMID: 28238957 


397. J Pediatr. 2017 May;184:94-100.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2017.01.058. Epub 2017
Feb 24.

Psychological Factors May Play an Important Role in Pediatric Crohn's Disease
Symptoms and Disability.

van Tilburg MAL(1), Claar RL(2), Romano JM(3), Langer SL(4), Drossman DA(2),
Whitehead WE(2), Abdullah B(5), Levy RL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Functional Gastrointestinal and Motility Disorders, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC; Campbell University, College of Pharmacy and
Health Sciences, Buies Creek, NC. Electronic address: tilburg@med.unc.edu.
(2)Center for Functional Gastrointestinal and Motility Disorders, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. (3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA. (4)School of Social Work,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA. (5)Prime Health Clinic, Puyallup, WA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the relative contributions of disease activity and
psychological factors to self-reported symptoms and disability in children with
Crohn's disease.
STUDY DESIGN: Participants (n = 127 children age 8-18 years) completed
questionnaires on symptom severity and disability, as well as psychological
measures assessing anxiety, depression, pain beliefs and coping. Disease activity
was measured by the Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index. Structural equation
modeling was used to test the effects of disease activity and psychological
factors on symptoms and disability.
RESULTS: In the hypothesized model predicting symptoms, psychological factors
(β = 0.58; P < .001) were significantly associated with disease symptoms but
disease activity was not. The model for disability yielded significant
associations for both psychological factors (β = 0.75; P < .001) and disease
activity (β = 0.61, P < .05).
CONCLUSION: Crohn's disease symptoms in children and adolescents are not only
driven by disease activity. Coping, anxiety, depression, and cognition of illness
are important in the patient-reporting of symptom severity and disability.
Physicians need to be aware that symptom self-reporting can be driven by
psychological factors and may not always be simply an indicator of disease
activity.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00679003.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2017.01.058 
PMID: 28238483 


398. Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol. 2017 Feb 22. pii: S2210-7401(17)30036-0. doi:
10.1016/j.clinre.2017.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Acute dysphagia in a patient with Crohn disease.

Vidon M(1), Perrod G(2), Rahmi G(1), Cellier C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of gastroenterology and endoscopy, Georges Pompidou European
hospital, AP-HP, Paris Sorbonnes university, 20, rue Leblanc, 75015 Paris,
France. (2)Department of gastroenterology and endoscopy, Georges Pompidou
European hospital, AP-HP, Paris Sorbonnes university, 20, rue Leblanc, 75015
Paris, France. Electronic address: guillaume.perrod@aphp.fr.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinre.2017.01.002 
PMID: 28237827 


399. J Autoimmun. 2017 May;79:74-83. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2017.01.009. Epub 2017 Feb
22.

The common, autoimmunity-predisposing 620Arg > Trp variant of PTPN22 modulates
macrophage function and morphology.

Li M(1), Beauchemin H(2), Popovic N(2), Peterson A(3), d'Hennezel E(4),
Piccirillo CA(4), Sun C(5), Polychronakos C(6).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi 712100, China; Research Institute of McGill University Health Centre,
Child Health and Human Development Program, 1001 Decarie Boulevard, Montreal, QC 
H4A 3J1, Canada. (2)Research Institute of McGill University Health Centre, Child 
Health and Human Development Program, 1001 Decarie Boulevard, Montreal, QC H4A
3J1, Canada. (3)Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H4A
3J1, Canada. (4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University,
Montreal, Quebec H3A 2B4, Canada; Translational Immunology Unit, Program in
Infectious Disease and Immunity in Global Health, Research Institute of the
McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec H4A 3J1, Canada. (5)College of 
Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi
712100, China. Electronic address: sunchao2775@163.com. (6)Research Institute of 
McGill University Health Centre, Child Health and Human Development Program, 1001
Decarie Boulevard, Montreal, QC H4A 3J1, Canada. Electronic address:
constantin.polychronakos@mcgill.ca.

The C1858T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in PTPN22 (protein tyrosine
phosphatase nonreceptor 22) leads to the 620 Arg to Trp polymorphism in its
encoded human protein LYP. This allelic variant is associated with multiple
autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes (T1D), Crohn's disease, rheumatoid
arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. However, the underlying mechanisms
are poorly understood. To study how this polymorphism influences the immune
system, we generated a mouse strain with a knock-in of the Trp allele, imitating 
the human disease-associated variant. We did not find significant difference
between the polymorphic and the wild type mice on the proportion of total CD4 T
cell, CD8 T cell, NK cell, memory T lymphocyte, macrophage, dendritic cells in
both peripheral lymph nodes and spleen. However, macrophages from Trp/Trp mice
showed altered morphology and enhanced function, including higher expression of
MHCII and B7 molecules and increased phagocytic ability, which further leads to a
higher T-cell activation by specific antigen. Our model shows no alteration in
immune cell profile by the Trp allele, but brings up macrophages as an important 
player to consider in explaining the PTPN22 Trp allele effect on autoimmune
disease risk.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2017.01.009 
PMID: 28237724 


400. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2017 Feb 24. doi: 10.1002/acr.23233. [Epub ahead of
print]

Secukinumab sustains improvement in signs and symptoms of patients with active
ankylosing spondylitis through 2 years: Results from a phase 3 study.

Marzo-Ortega H(1), Sieper J(2), Kivitz A(3), Blanco R(4), Cohen M(5), Martin
R(6), Readie A(6), Richards HB(7), Porter B(6); MEASURE 2 study group.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Leeds Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit, Leeds Teaching Hospitals 
Trust and Leeds Institute of Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Medicine, University
of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom. (2)University Clinic Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, 
Germany. (3)Altoona Center for Clinical Research, Duncansville, United States.
(4)Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, Instituto de Investigación
Marqués de Valdecilla - IDIVAL, Santander, Spain. (5)Division of Rheumatology,
McGill University, Montreal, Canada. (6)Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation,
East Hanover, United States. (7)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Secukinumab improved the signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis 
(AS) over 52 weeks in the phase 3 MEASURE 2 study (NCT01649375). Here, we report 
longer-term (104 weeks) efficacy and safety results.
METHODS: Patients with active AS were randomized to subcutaneous secukinumab 150 
mg, 75 mg, or placebo at baseline; weeks 1, 2 and 3; and every 4 weeks from week 
4. The primary endpoint was the ASAS20 response rate at week 16. Other endpoints 
included ASAS40, hsCRP, ASAS5/6, BASDAI, SF-36 PCS, ASAS partial remission,
EQ-5D, and FACIT-Fatigue. Endpoints were assessed through week 104, with multiple
imputation for binary variables and a mixed-effect model repeated measures for
continuous variables.
RESULTS: Of 219 randomized patients, 60/72 (83.3%) and 57/73 (78.1%) patients
completed 104 weeks of treatment with secukinumab 150 mg and 75 mg, respectively;
ASAS20/ASAS40 response rates at week 104 were 71.5%/47.5% with both secukinumab
doses, respectively. Clinical improvements with secukinumab were sustained
through week 104 across all secondary endpoints. Across the entire treatment
period (mean secukinumab exposure: 735.6 days), exposure-adjusted incidence rates
for serious infections and infestations, Crohn's disease, malignant or
unspecified tumors, and MACE with secukinumab were 1.2, 0.7, 0.5, and 0.7 per 100
patient-years, respectively. No cases of tuberculosis reactivation, opportunistic
infections, or suicidal ideation were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Secukinumab provided sustained improvement through 2 years in the
signs and symptoms of AS, with a safety profile consistent with previous reports.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

© 2017, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/acr.23233 
PMID: 28235249 

